<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
<title>The Project Gutenberg eBook of Ragged Dick, by Horatio Alger</title>

<style type="text/css">

body { margin-left: 20%;
       margin-right: 20%;
       text-align: justify; }

h1, h2, h3, h4, h5 {text-align: center; font-style: normal; font-weight:
normal; line-height: 1.5; margin-top: .5em; margin-bottom: .5em;}

h1 {font-size: 300%;
    margin-top: 0.6em;
    margin-bottom: 0.6em;
    letter-spacing: 0.12em;
    word-spacing: 0.2em;
    text-indent: 0em;}
h2 {font-size: 150%; margin-top: 2em; margin-bottom: 1em;}
h3 {font-size: 130%; margin-top: 1em;}
h4 {font-size: 120%;}
h5 {font-size: 110%;}

.no-break {page-break-before: avoid;} /* for epubs */

div.chapter {page-break-before: always; margin-top: 4em;}

hr {width: 80%; margin-top: 2em; margin-bottom: 2em;}

p {text-indent: 1em;
   margin-top: 0.25em;
   margin-bottom: 0.25em; }

.p2 {margin-top: 2em;}

p.letter {text-indent: 0%;
          margin-left: 10%;
          margin-right: 10%;
          margin-top: 1em;
          margin-bottom: 1em; }

p.center  {text-align: center;
           text-indent: 0em;
           margin-top: 1em;
           margin-bottom: 1em; }

p.right {text-align: right;
         margin-right: 10%;
         margin-top: 1em;
         margin-bottom: 1em; }

p.footnote {font-size: 90%;
           text-indent: 0%;
           margin-left: 10%;
           margin-right: 10%;
           margin-top: 1em;
           margin-bottom: 1em; }

a:link {color:blue; text-decoration:none}
a:visited {color:blue; text-decoration:none}
a:hover {color:red}

</style>

</head>

<body>

<h1>Ragged Dick</h1>

<h3>OR,</h3>

<h3>STREET LIFE IN NEW YORK WITH THE BOOT-BLACKS.</h3>

<h2 class="no-break">by Horatio Alger Jr.</h2>

<hr />

<h2>Contents</h2>

<table summary="" style="">

<tr>
<td> <a href="#pref01">PREFACE</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap01">CHAPTER I. RAGGED DICK IS INTRODUCED TO THE READER</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap02">CHAPTER II. JOHNNY NOLAN</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap03">CHAPTER III. DICK MAKES A PROPOSITION</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap04">CHAPTER IV. DICK’S NEW SUIT</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap05">CHAPTER V. CHATHAM STREET AND BROADWAY</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap06">CHAPTER VI. UP BROADWAY TO MADISON SQUARE</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap07">CHAPTER VII. THE POCKET-BOOK</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap08">CHAPTER VIII. DICK’S EARLY HISTORY</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap09">CHAPTER IX. A SCENE IN A THIRD AVENUE CAR</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap10">CHAPTER X. INTRODUCES A VICTIM OF MISPLACED CONFIDENCE</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap11">CHAPTER XI. DICK AS A DETECTIVE</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap12">CHAPTER XII. DICK HIRES A ROOM ON MOTT STREET</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap13">CHAPTER XIII. MICKY MAGUIRE</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap14">CHAPTER XIV. A BATTLE AND A VICTORY</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap15">CHAPTER XV. DICK SECURES A TUTOR</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap16">CHAPTER XVI. THE FIRST LESSON</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap17">CHAPTER XVII. DICK’S FIRST APPEARANCE IN SOCIETY</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap18">CHAPTER XVIII. MICKY MAGUIRE’S SECOND DEFEAT</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap19">CHAPTER XIX. FOSDICK CHANGES HIS BUSINESS</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap20">CHAPTER XX. NINE MONTHS LATER</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap21">CHAPTER XXI. DICK LOSES HIS BANK-BOOK</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap22">CHAPTER XXII. TRACKING THE THIEF</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap23">CHAPTER XXIII. TRAVIS IS ARRESTED</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap24">CHAPTER XXIV. DICK RECEIVES A LETTER</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap25">CHAPTER XXV. DICK WRITES HIS FIRST LETTER</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap26">CHAPTER XXVI. AN EXCITING ADVENTURE</a></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td> <a href="#chap27">CHAPTER XXVII. CONCLUSION</a></td>
</tr>

</table>

<div class="chapter">

<p class="center">
To<br />
Joseph W. Allen,<br />
at whose suggestion this story<br />
was undertaken,<br />
it is<br />
inscribed with friendly regard.
</p>

<hr />

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="pref01" id="pref01"></a>PREFACE</h2>

<p>
“Ragged Dick” was contributed as a serial story to the pages of the
Schoolmate, a well-known juvenile magazine, during the year 1867. While in
course of publication, it was received with so many evidences of favor that it
has been rewritten and considerably enlarged, and is now presented to the
public as the first volume of a series intended to illustrate the life and
experiences of the friendless and vagrant children who are now numbered by
thousands in New York and other cities.
</p>

<p>
Several characters in the story are sketched from life. The necessary
information has been gathered mainly from personal observation and
conversations with the boys themselves. The author is indebted also to the
excellent Superintendent of the Newsboys’ Lodging House, in Fulton
Street, for some facts of which he has been able to make use. Some anachronisms
may be noted. Wherever they occur, they have been admitted, as aiding in the
development of the story, and will probably be considered as of little
importance in an unpretending volume, which does not aspire to strict
historical accuracy.
</p>

<p>
The author hopes that, while the volumes in this series may prove interesting
stories, they may also have the effect of enlisting the sympathies of his
readers in behalf of the unfortunate children whose life is described, and of
leading them to co-operate with the praiseworthy efforts now making by the
Children’s Aid Society and other organizations to ameliorate their
condition.
</p>

<p class="letter">
New York, April, 1868
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap01" id="chap01"></a>CHAPTER I.<br />
RAGGED DICK IS INTRODUCED TO THE READER</h2>

<p>
“Wake up there, youngster,” said a rough voice.
</p>

<p>
Ragged Dick opened his eyes slowly, and stared stupidly in the face of the
speaker, but did not offer to get up.
</p>

<p>
“Wake up, you young vagabond!” said the man a little impatiently;
“I suppose you’d lay there all day, if I hadn’t called
you.”
</p>

<p>
“What time is it?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Seven o’clock.”
</p>

<p>
“Seven o’clock! I oughter’ve been up an hour ago. I know what
’twas made me so precious sleepy. I went to the Old Bowery last night,
and didn’t turn in till past twelve.”
</p>

<p>
“You went to the Old Bowery? Where’d you get your money?”
asked the man, who was a porter in the employ of a firm doing business on
Spruce Street. “Made it by shines, in course. My guardian don’t
allow me no money for theatres, so I have to earn it.”
</p>

<p>
“Some boys get it easier than that,” said the porter significantly.
</p>

<p>
“You don’t catch me stealin’, if that’s what you
mean,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Don’t you ever steal, then?”
</p>

<p>
“No, and I wouldn’t. Lots of boys does it, but I
wouldn’t.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, I’m glad to hear you say that. I believe there’s some
good in you, Dick, after all.”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, I’m a rough customer!” said Dick. “But I
wouldn’t steal. It’s mean.”
</p>

<p>
“I’m glad you think so, Dick,” and the rough voice sounded
gentler than at first. “Have you got any money to buy your
breakfast?”
</p>

<p>
“No, but I’ll soon get some.”
</p>

<p>
While this conversation had been going on, Dick had got up. His bedchamber had
been a wooden box half full of straw, on which the young boot-black had reposed
his weary limbs, and slept as soundly as if it had been a bed of down. He
dumped down into the straw without taking the trouble of undressing.
</p>

<p>
Getting up too was an equally short process. He jumped out of the box, shook
himself, picked out one or two straws that had found their way into rents in
his clothes, and, drawing a well-worn cap over his uncombed locks, he was all
ready for the business of the day.
</p>

<p>
Dick’s appearance as he stood beside the box was rather peculiar. His
pants were torn in several places, and had apparently belonged in the first
instance to a boy two sizes larger than himself. He wore a vest, all the
buttons of which were gone except two, out of which peeped a shirt which looked
as if it had been worn a month. To complete his costume he wore a coat too long
for him, dating back, if one might judge from its general appearance, to a
remote antiquity.
</p>

<p>
Washing the face and hands is usually considered proper in commencing the day,
but Dick was above such refinement. He had no particular dislike to dirt, and
did not think it necessary to remove several dark streaks on his face and
hands. But in spite of his dirt and rags there was something about Dick that
was attractive. It was easy to see that if he had been clean and well dressed
he would have been decidedly good-looking. Some of his companions were sly, and
their faces inspired distrust; but Dick had a frank, straight-forward manner
that made him a favorite.
</p>

<p>
Dick’s business hours had commenced. He had no office to open. His little
blacking-box was ready for use, and he looked sharply in the faces of all who
passed, addressing each with, “Shine yer boots, sir?”
</p>

<p>
“How much?” asked a gentleman on his way to his office.
</p>

<p>
“Ten cents,” said Dick, dropping his box, and sinking upon his
knees on the sidewalk, flourishing his brush with the air of one skilled in his
profession.
</p>

<p>
“Ten cents! Isn’t that a little steep?”
</p>

<p>
“Well, you know ’taint all clear profit,” said Dick, who had
already set to work. “There’s the <i>blacking</i> costs something,
and I have to get a new brush pretty often.”
</p>

<p>
“And you have a large rent too,” said the gentleman quizzically,
with a glance at a large hole in Dick’s coat.
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir,” said Dick, always ready to joke; “I have to pay
such a big rent for my manshun up on Fifth Avenoo, that I can’t afford to
take less than ten cents a shine. I’ll give you a bully shine,
sir.”
</p>

<p>
“Be quick about it, for I am in a hurry. So your house is on Fifth
Avenue, is it?”
</p>

<p>
“It isn’t anywhere else,” said Dick, and Dick spoke the truth
there.
</p>

<p>
“What tailor do you patronize?” asked the gentleman, surveying
Dick’s attire.
</p>

<p>
“Would you like to go to the same one?” asked Dick, shrewdly.
</p>

<p>
“Well, no; it strikes me that he didn’t give you a very good
fit.”
</p>

<p>
“This coat once belonged to General Washington,” said Dick,
comically. “He wore it all through the Revolution, and it got torn some,
’cause he fit so hard. When he died he told his widder to give it to some
smart young feller that hadn’t got none of his own; so she gave it to me.
But if you’d like it, sir, to remember General Washington by, I’ll
let you have it reasonable.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you, but I wouldn’t want to deprive you of it. And did your
pants come from General Washington too?”
</p>

<p>
“No, they was a gift from Lewis Napoleon. Lewis had outgrown ’em
and sent ’em to me,—he’s bigger than me, and that’s why
they don’t fit.”
</p>

<p>
“It seems you have distinguished friends. Now, my lad, I suppose you
would like your money.”
</p>

<p>
“I shouldn’t have any objection,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I believe,” said the gentleman, examining his pocket-book,
“I haven’t got anything short of twenty-five cents. Have you got
any change?”
</p>

<p>
“Not a cent,” said Dick. “All my money’s invested in
the Erie Railroad.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s unfortunate.”
</p>

<p>
“Shall I get the money changed, sir?”
</p>

<p>
“I can’t wait; I’ve got to meet an appointment immediately.
I’ll hand you twenty-five cents, and you can leave the change at my
office any time during the day.”
</p>

<p>
“All right, sir. Where is it?”
</p>

<p>
“No. 125 Fulton Street. Shall you remember?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir. What name?”
</p>

<p>
“Greyson,—office on second floor.”
</p>

<p>
“All right, sir; I’ll bring it.”
</p>

<p>
“I wonder whether the little scamp will prove honest,” said Mr.
Greyson to himself, as he walked away. “If he does, I’ll give him
my custom regularly. If he don’t as is most likely, I shan’t mind
the loss of fifteen cents.”
</p>

<p>
Mr. Greyson didn’t understand Dick. Our ragged hero wasn’t a model
boy in all respects. I am afraid he swore sometimes, and now and then he played
tricks upon unsophisticated boys from the country, or gave a wrong direction to
honest old gentlemen unused to the city. A clergyman in search of the Cooper
Institute he once directed to the Tombs Prison, and, following him unobserved,
was highly delighted when the unsuspicious stranger walked up the front steps
of the great stone building on Centre Street, and tried to obtain admission.
</p>

<p>
“I guess he wouldn’t want to stay long if he did get in,”
thought Ragged Dick, hitching up his pants. “Leastways I shouldn’t.
They’re so precious glad to see you that they won’t let you go, but
board you gratooitous, and never send in no bills.”
</p>

<p>
Another of Dick’s faults was his extravagance. Being always wide-awake
and ready for business, he earned enough to have supported him comfortably and
respectably. There were not a few young clerks who employed Dick from time to
time in his professional capacity, who scarcely earned as much as he, greatly
as their style and dress exceeded his. But Dick was careless of his earnings.
Where they went he could hardly have told himself. However much he managed to
earn during the day, all was generally spent before morning. He was fond of
going to the Old Bowery Theatre, and to Tony Pastor’s, and if he had any
money left afterwards, he would invite some of his friends in somewhere to have
an oyster-stew; so it seldom happened that he commenced the day with a penny.
</p>

<p>
Then I am sorry to add that Dick had formed the habit of smoking. This cost him
considerable, for Dick was rather fastidious about his cigars, and
wouldn’t smoke the cheapest. Besides, having a liberal nature, he was
generally ready to treat his companions. But of course the expense was the
smallest objection. No boy of fourteen can smoke without being affected
injuriously. Men are frequently injured by smoking, and boys always. But large
numbers of the newsboys and boot-blacks form the habit. Exposed to the cold and
wet they find that it warms them up, and the self-indulgence grows upon them.
It is not uncommon to see a little boy, too young to be out of his
mother’s sight, smoking with all the apparent satisfaction of a veteran
smoker.
</p>

<p>
There was another way in which Dick sometimes lost money. There was a noted
gambling-house on Baxter Street, which in the evening was sometimes crowded
with these juvenile gamesters, who staked their hard earnings, generally losing
of course, and refreshing themselves from time to time with a vile mixture of
liquor at two cents a glass. Sometimes Dick strayed in here, and played with
the rest.
</p>

<p>
I have mentioned Dick’s faults and defects, because I want it understood,
to begin with, that I don’t consider him a model boy. But there were some
good points about him nevertheless. He was above doing anything mean or
dishonorable. He would not steal, or cheat, or impose upon younger boys, but
was frank and straight-forward, manly and self-reliant. His nature was a noble
one, and had saved him from all mean faults. I hope my young readers will like
him as I do, without being blind to his faults. Perhaps, although he was only a
boot-black, they may find something in him to imitate.
</p>

<p>
And now, having fairly introduced Ragged Dick to my young readers, I must refer
them to the next chapter for his further adventures.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap02" id="chap02"></a>CHAPTER II.<br />
JOHNNY NOLAN</h2>

<p>
After Dick had finished polishing Mr. Greyson’s boots he was fortunate
enough to secure three other customers, two of them reporters in the Tribune
establishment, which occupies the corner of Spruce Street and Printing House
Square.
</p>

<p>
When Dick had got through with his last customer the City Hall clock indicated
eight o’clock. He had been up an hour, and hard at work, and naturally
began to think of breakfast. He went up to the head of Spruce Street, and
turned into Nassau. Two blocks further, and he reached Ann Street. On this
street was a small, cheap restaurant, where for five cents Dick could get a cup
of coffee, and for ten cents more, a plate of beefsteak with a plate of bread
thrown in. These Dick ordered, and sat down at a table.
</p>

<p>
It was a small apartment with a few plain tables unprovided with cloths, for
the class of customers who patronized it were not very particular. Our
hero’s breakfast was soon before him. Neither the coffee nor the steak
were as good as can be bought at Delmonico’s; but then it is very
doubtful whether, in the present state of his wardrobe, Dick would have been
received at that aristocratic restaurant, even if his means had admitted of
paying the high prices there charged.
</p>

<p>
Dick had scarcely been served when he espied a boy about his own size standing
at the door, looking wistfully into the restaurant. This was Johnny Nolan, a
boy of fourteen, who was engaged in the same profession as Ragged Dick. His
wardrobe was in very much the same condition as Dick’s.
</p>

<p>
“Had your breakfast, Johnny?” inquired Dick, cutting off a piece of
steak.
</p>

<p>
“No.”
</p>

<p>
“Come in, then. Here’s room for you.”
</p>

<p>
“I aint got no money,” said Johnny, looking a little enviously at
his more fortunate friend.
</p>

<p>
“Haven’t you had any shines?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, I had one, but I shan’t get any pay till to-morrow.”
</p>

<p>
“Are you hungry?”
</p>

<p>
“Try me, and see.”
</p>

<p>
“Come in. I’ll stand treat this morning.”
</p>

<p>
Johnny Nolan was nowise slow to accept this invitation, and was soon seated
beside Dick.
</p>

<p>
“What’ll you have, Johnny?”
</p>

<p>
“Same as you.”
</p>

<p>
“Cup o’ coffee and beefsteak,” ordered Dick.
</p>

<p>
These were promptly brought, and Johnny attacked them vigorously.
</p>

<p>
Now, in the boot-blacking business, as well as in higher avocations, the same
rule prevails, that energy and industry are rewarded, and indolence suffers.
Dick was energetic and on the alert for business, but Johnny the reverse. The
consequence was that Dick earned probably three times as much as the other.
</p>

<p>
“How do you like it?” asked Dick, surveying Johnny’s attacks
upon the steak with evident complacency.
</p>

<p>
“It’s hunky.”
</p>

<p>
I don’t believe “hunky” is to be found in either
Webster’s or Worcester’s big dictionary; but boys will readily
understand what it means.
</p>

<p>
“Do you come here often?” asked Johnny.
</p>

<p>
“Most every day. You’d better come too.”
</p>

<p>
“I can’t afford it.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, you’d ought to, then,” said Dick. “What do you
do I’d like to know?”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t get near as much as you, Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“Well you might if you tried. I keep my eyes open,—that’s the
way I get jobs. You’re lazy, that’s what’s the matter.”
</p>

<p>
Johnny did not see fit to reply to this charge. Probably he felt the justice of
it, and preferred to proceed with the breakfast, which he enjoyed the more as
it cost him nothing.
</p>

<p>
Breakfast over, Dick walked up to the desk, and settled the bill. Then,
followed by Johnny, he went out into the street.
</p>

<p>
“Where are you going, Johnny?”
</p>

<p>
“Up to Mr. Taylor’s, on Spruce Street, to see if he don’t
want a shine.”
</p>

<p>
“Do you work for him reg’lar?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes. Him and his partner wants a shine most every day. Where are you
goin’?”
</p>

<p>
“Down front of the Astor House. I guess I’ll find some customers
there.”
</p>

<p>
At this moment Johnny started, and, dodging into an entry way, hid behind the
door, considerably to Dick’s surprise.
</p>

<p>
“What’s the matter now?” asked our hero.
</p>

<p>
“Has he gone?” asked Johnny, his voice betraying anxiety.
</p>

<p>
“Who gone, I’d like to know?”
</p>

<p>
“That man in the brown coat.”
</p>

<p>
“What of him. You aint scared of him, are you?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, he got me a place once.”
</p>

<p>
“Where?”
</p>

<p>
“Ever so far off.”
</p>

<p>
“What if he did?”
</p>

<p>
“I ran away.”
</p>

<p>
“Didn’t you like it?”
</p>

<p>
“No, I had to get up too early. It was on a farm, and I had to get up at
five to take care of the cows. I like New York best.”
</p>

<p>
“Didn’t they give you enough to eat?”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, yes, plenty.”
</p>

<p>
“And you had a good bed?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes.”
</p>

<p>
“Then you’d better have stayed. You don’t get either of them
here. Where’d you sleep last night?”
</p>

<p>
“Up an alley in an old wagon.”
</p>

<p>
“You had a better bed than that in the country, didn’t you?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, it was as soft as—as cotton.”
</p>

<p>
Johnny had once slept on a bale of cotton, the recollection supplying him with
a comparison.
</p>

<p>
“Why didn’t you stay?”
</p>

<p>
“I felt lonely,” said Johnny.
</p>

<p>
Johnny could not exactly explain his feelings, but it is often the case that
the young vagabond of the streets, though his food is uncertain, and his bed
may be any old wagon or barrel that he is lucky enough to find unoccupied when
night sets in, gets so attached to his precarious but independent mode of life,
that he feels discontented in any other. He is accustomed to the noise and
bustle and ever-varied life of the streets, and in the quiet scenes of the
country misses the excitement in the midst of which he has always dwelt.
</p>

<p>
Johnny had but one tie to bind him to the city. He had a father living, but he
might as well have been without one. Mr. Nolan was a confirmed drunkard, and
spent the greater part of his wages for liquor. His potations made him ugly,
and inflamed a temper never very sweet, working him up sometimes to such a
pitch of rage that Johnny’s life was in danger. Some months before, he
had thrown a flat-iron at his son’s head with such terrific force that
unless Johnny had dodged he would not have lived long enough to obtain a place
in our story. He fled the house, and from that time had not dared to re-enter
it. Somebody had given him a brush and box of blacking, and he had set up in
business on his own account. But he had not energy enough to succeed, as has
already been stated, and I am afraid the poor boy had met with many hardships,
and suffered more than once from cold and hunger. Dick had befriended him more
than once, and often given him a breakfast or dinner, as the case might be.
</p>

<p>
“How’d you get away?” asked Dick, with some curiosity.
“Did you walk?”
</p>

<p>
“No, I rode on the cars.”
</p>

<p>
“Where’d you get your money? I hope you didn’t steal
it.”
</p>

<p>
“I didn’t have none.”
</p>

<p>
“What did you do, then?”
</p>

<p>
“I got up about three o’clock, and walked to Albany.”
</p>

<p>
“Where’s that?” asked Dick, whose ideas on the subject of
geography were rather vague.
</p>

<p>
“Up the river.”
</p>

<p>
“How far?”
</p>

<p>
“About a thousand miles,” said Johnny, whose conceptions of
distance were equally vague.
</p>

<p>
“Go ahead. What did you do then?”
</p>

<p>
“I hid on top of a freight car, and came all the way without their seeing
me.* That man in the brown coat was the man that got me the place, and
I’m afraid he’d want to send me back.”
</p>

<p class="footnote">
* A fact.
</p>

<p>
“Well,” said Dick, reflectively, “I dunno as I’d like
to live in the country. I couldn’t go to Tony Pastor’s or the Old
Bowery. There wouldn’t be no place to spend my evenings. But I say,
it’s tough in winter, Johnny, ’specially when your overcoat’s
at the tailor’s, an’ likely to stay there.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s so, Dick. But I must be goin’, or Mr. Taylor’ll
get somebody else to shine his boots.”
</p>

<p>
Johnny walked back to Nassau Street, while Dick kept on his way to Broadway.
</p>

<p>
“That boy,” soliloquized Dick, as Johnny took his departure,
“aint got no ambition. I’ll bet he won’t get five shines
to-day. I’m glad I aint like him. I couldn’t go to the theatre, nor
buy no cigars, nor get half as much as I wanted to eat.—Shine yer boots,
sir?”
</p>

<p>
Dick always had an eye to business, and this remark was addressed to a young
man, dressed in a stylish manner, who was swinging a jaunty cane.
</p>

<p>
“I’ve had my boots blacked once already this morning, but this
confounded mud has spoiled the shine.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll make ’em all right, sir, in a minute.”
</p>

<p>
“Go ahead, then.”
</p>

<p>
The boots were soon polished in Dick’s best style, which proved very
satisfactory, our hero being a proficient in the art.
</p>

<p>
“I haven’t got any change,” said the young man, fumbling in
his pocket, “but here’s a bill you may run somewhere and get
changed. I’ll pay you five cents extra for your trouble.”
</p>

<p>
He handed Dick a two-dollar bill, which our hero took into a store close by.
</p>

<p>
“Will you please change that, sir?” said Dick, walking up to the
counter.
</p>

<p>
The salesman to whom he proffered it took the bill, and, slightly glancing at
it, exclaimed angrily, “Be off, you young vagabond, or I’ll have
you arrested.”
</p>

<p>
“What’s the row?”
</p>

<p>
“You’ve offered me a counterfeit bill.”
</p>

<p>
“I didn’t know it,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Don’t tell me. Be off, or I’ll have you arrested.”
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap03" id="chap03"></a>CHAPTER III.<br />
DICK MAKES A PROPOSITION</h2>

<p>
Though Dick was somewhat startled at discovering that the bill he had offered
was counterfeit, he stood his ground bravely.
</p>

<p>
“Clear out of this shop, you young vagabond,” repeated the clerk.
</p>

<p>
“Then give me back my bill.”
</p>

<p>
“That you may pass it again? No, sir, I shall do no such thing.”
</p>

<p>
“It doesn’t belong to me,” said Dick. “A gentleman that
owes me for a shine gave it to me to change.”
</p>

<p>
“A likely story,” said the clerk; but he seemed a little uneasy.
</p>

<p>
“I’ll go and call him,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
He went out, and found his late customer standing on the Astor House steps.
</p>

<p>
“Well, youngster, have you brought back my change? You were a precious
long time about it. I began to think you had cleared out with the money.”
</p>

<p>
“That aint my style,” said Dick, proudly.
</p>

<p>
“Then where’s the change?”
</p>

<p>
“I haven’t got it.”
</p>

<p>
“Where’s the bill then?”
</p>

<p>
“I haven’t got that either.”
</p>

<p>
“You young rascal!”
</p>

<p>
“Hold on a minute, mister,” said Dick, “and I’ll tell
you all about it. The man what took the bill said it wasn’t good, and
kept it.”
</p>

<p>
“The bill was perfectly good. So he kept it, did he? I’ll go with
you to the store, and see whether he won’t give it back to me.”
</p>

<p>
Dick led the way, and the gentleman followed him into the store. At the
reappearance of Dick in such company, the clerk flushed a little, and looked
nervous. He fancied that he could browbeat a ragged boot-black, but with a
gentleman he saw that it would be a different matter. He did not seem to notice
the newcomers, but began to replace some goods on the shelves.
</p>

<p>
“Now,” said the young man, “point out the clerk that has my
money.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s him,” said Dick, pointing out the clerk.
</p>

<p>
The gentleman walked up to the counter.
</p>

<p>
“I will trouble you,” he said a little haughtily, “for a bill
which that boy offered you, and which you still hold in your possession.”
</p>

<p>
“It was a bad bill,” said the clerk, his cheek flushing, and his
manner nervous.
</p>

<p>
“It was no such thing. I require you to produce it, and let the matter be
decided.”
</p>

<p>
The clerk fumbled in his vest-pocket, and drew out a bad-looking bill.
</p>

<p>
“This is a bad bill, but it is not the one I gave the boy.”
</p>

<p>
“It is the one he gave me.”
</p>

<p>
The young man looked doubtful.
</p>

<p>
“Boy,” he said to Dick, “is this the bill you gave to be
changed?”
</p>

<p>
“No, it isn’t.”
</p>

<p>
“You lie, you young rascal!” exclaimed the clerk, who began to find
himself in a tight place, and could not see the way out.
</p>

<p>
This scene naturally attracted the attention of all in the store, and the
proprietor walked up from the lower end, where he had been busy.
</p>

<p>
“What’s all this, Mr. Hatch?” he demanded.
</p>

<p>
“That boy,” said the clerk, “came in and asked change for a
bad bill. I kept the bill, and told him to clear out. Now he wants it again to
pass on somebody else.”
</p>

<p>
“Show the bill.”
</p>

<p>
The merchant looked at it. “Yes, that’s a bad bill,” he said.
“There is no doubt about that.”
</p>

<p>
“But it is not the one the boy offered,” said Dick’s patron.
“It is one of the same denomination, but on a different bank.”
</p>

<p>
“Do you remember what bank it was on?”
</p>

<p>
“It was on the Merchants’ Bank of Boston.”
</p>

<p>
“Are you sure of it?”
</p>

<p>
“I am.”
</p>

<p>
“Perhaps the boy kept it and offered the other.”
</p>

<p>
“You may search me if you want to,” said Dick, indignantly.
</p>

<p>
“He doesn’t look as if he was likely to have any extra bills. I
suspect that your clerk pocketed the good bill, and has substituted the
counterfeit note. It is a nice little scheme of his for making money.”
</p>

<p>
“I haven’t seen any bill on the Merchants’ Bank,” said
the clerk, doggedly.
</p>

<p>
“You had better feel in your pockets.”
</p>

<p>
“This matter must be investigated,” said the merchant, firmly.
“If you have the bill, produce it.”
</p>

<p>
“I haven’t got it,” said the clerk; but he looked guilty
notwithstanding.
</p>

<p>
“I demand that he be searched,” said Dick’s patron.
</p>

<p>
“I tell you I haven’t got it.”
</p>

<p>
“Shall I send for a police officer, Mr. Hatch, or will you allow yourself
to be searched quietly?” said the merchant.
</p>

<p>
Alarmed at the threat implied in these words, the clerk put his hand into his
vest-pocket, and drew out a two-dollar bill on the Merchants’ Bank.
</p>

<p>
“Is this your note?” asked the shopkeeper, showing it to the young
man.
</p>

<p>
“It is.”
</p>

<p>
“I must have made a mistake,” faltered the clerk.
</p>

<p>
“I shall not give you a chance to make such another mistake in my
employ,” said the merchant sternly. “You may go up to the desk and
ask for what wages are due you. I shall have no further occasion for your
services.”
</p>

<p>
“Now, youngster,” said Dick’s patron, as they went out of the
store, after he had finally got the bill changed. “I must pay you
something extra for your trouble. Here’s fifty cents.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you, sir,” said Dick. “You’re very kind.
Don’t you want some more bills changed?”
</p>

<p>
“Not to-day,” said he with a smile. “It’s too
expensive.”
</p>

<p>
“I’m in luck,” thought our hero complacently. “I guess
I’ll go to Barnum’s to-night, and see the bearded lady, the
eight-foot giant, the two-foot dwarf, and the other curiosities, too numerous
to mention.”
</p>

<p>
Dick shouldered his box and walked up as far as the Astor House. He took his
station on the sidewalk, and began to look about him.
</p>

<p>
Just behind him were two persons,—one, a gentleman of fifty; the other, a
boy of thirteen or fourteen. They were speaking together, and Dick had no
difficulty in hearing what was said.
</p>

<p>
“I am sorry, Frank, that I can’t go about, and show you some of the
sights of New York, but I shall be full of business to-day. It is your first
visit to the city, too.”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir.”
</p>

<p>
“There’s a good deal worth seeing here. But I’m afraid
you’ll have to wait to next time. You can go out and walk by yourself,
but don’t venture too far, or you will get lost.”
</p>

<p>
Frank looked disappointed.
</p>

<p>
“I wish Tom Miles knew I was here,” he said. “He would go
around with me.”
</p>

<p>
“Where does he live?”
</p>

<p>
“Somewhere up town, I believe.”
</p>

<p>
“Then, unfortunately, he is not available. If you would rather go with me
than stay here, you can, but as I shall be most of the time in
merchants’-counting-rooms, I am afraid it would not be very
interesting.”
</p>

<p>
“I think,” said Frank, after a little hesitation, “that I
will go off by myself. I won’t go very far, and if I lose my way, I will
inquire for the Astor House.”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, anybody will direct you here. Very well, Frank, I am sorry I
can’t do better for you.”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, never mind, uncle, I shall be amused in walking around, and looking
at the shop-windows. There will be a great deal to see.”
</p>

<p>
Now Dick had listened to all this conversation. Being an enterprising young
man, he thought he saw a chance for a speculation, and determined to avail
himself of it.
</p>

<p>
Accordingly he stepped up to the two just as Frank’s uncle was about
leaving, and said, “I know all about the city, sir; I’ll show him
around, if you want me to.”
</p>

<p>
The gentleman looked a little curiously at the ragged figure before him.
</p>

<p>
“So you are a city boy, are you?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir,” said Dick, “I’ve lived here ever since I
was a baby.”
</p>

<p>
“And you know all about the public buildings, I suppose?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir.”
</p>

<p>
“And the Central Park?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir. I know my way all round.”
</p>

<p>
The gentleman looked thoughtful.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know what to say, Frank,” he remarked after a while.
“It is rather a novel proposal. He isn’t exactly the sort of guide
I would have picked out for you. Still he looks honest. He has an open face,
and I think can be depended upon.”
</p>

<p>
“I wish he wasn’t so ragged and dirty,” said Frank, who felt
a little shy about being seen with such a companion.
</p>

<p>
“I’m afraid you haven’t washed your face this morning,”
said Mr. Whitney, for that was the gentleman’s name.
</p>

<p>
“They didn’t have no wash-bowls at the hotel where I
stopped,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“What hotel did you stop at?”
</p>

<p>
“The Box Hotel.”
</p>

<p>
“The Box Hotel?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir, I slept in a box on Spruce Street.”
</p>

<p>
Frank surveyed Dick curiously.
</p>

<p>
“How did you like it?” he asked.
</p>

<p>
“I slept bully.”
</p>

<p>
“Suppose it had rained.”
</p>

<p>
“Then I’d have wet my best clothes,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Are these all the clothes you have?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir.”
</p>

<p>
Mr. Whitney spoke a few words to Frank, who seemed pleased with the suggestion.
</p>

<p>
“Follow me, my lad,” he said.
</p>

<p>
Dick in some surprise obeyed orders, following Mr. Whitney and Frank into the
hotel, past the office, to the foot of the staircase. Here a servant of the
hotel stopped Dick, but Mr. Whitney explained that he had something for him to
do, and he was allowed to proceed.
</p>

<p>
They entered a long entry, and finally paused before a door. This being opened
a pleasant chamber was disclosed.
</p>

<p>
“Come in, my lad,” said Mr. Whitney.
</p>

<p>
Dick and Frank entered.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap04" id="chap04"></a>CHAPTER IV.<br />
DICK’S NEW SUIT</h2>

<p>
“Now,” said Mr. Whitney to Dick, “my nephew here is on his
way to a boarding-school. He has a suit of clothes in his trunk about half
worn. He is willing to give them to you. I think they will look better than
those you have on.”
</p>

<p>
Dick was so astonished that he hardly knew what to say. Presents were something
that he knew very little about, never having received any to his knowledge.
That so large a gift should be made to him by a stranger seemed very wonderful.
</p>

<p>
The clothes were brought out, and turned out to be a neat gray suit.
</p>

<p>
“Before you put them on, my lad, you must wash yourself. Clean clothes
and a dirty skin don’t go very well together. Frank, you may attend to
him. I am obliged to go at once. Have you got as much money as you
require?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, uncle.”
</p>

<p>
“One more word, my lad,” said Mr. Whitney, addressing Dick;
“I may be rash in trusting a boy of whom I know nothing, but I like your
looks, and I think you will prove a proper guide for my nephew.”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, I will, sir,” said Dick, earnestly. “Honor
bright!”
</p>

<p>
“Very well. A pleasant time to you.”
</p>

<p>
The process of cleansing commenced. To tell the truth Dick needed it, and the
sensation of cleanliness he found both new and pleasant. Frank added to his
gift a shirt, stockings, and an old pair of shoes. “I am sorry I
haven’t any cap,” said he.
</p>

<p>
“I’ve got one,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“It isn’t so new as it might be,” said Frank, surveying an
old felt hat, which had once been black, but was now dingy, with a large hole
in the top and a portion of the rim torn off.
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “my grandfather used to wear it when he was
a boy, and I’ve kep’ it ever since out of respect for his memory.
But I’ll get a new one now. I can buy one cheap on Chatham Street.”
</p>

<p>
“Is that near here?”
</p>

<p>
“Only five minutes’ walk.”
</p>

<p>
“Then we can get one on the way.”
</p>

<p>
When Dick was dressed in his new attire, with his face and hands clean, and his
hair brushed, it was difficult to imagine that he was the same boy.
</p>

<p>
He now looked quite handsome, and might readily have been taken for a young
gentleman, except that his hands were red and grimy.
</p>

<p>
“Look at yourself,” said Frank, leading him before the mirror.
</p>

<p>
“By gracious!” said Dick, starting back in astonishment,
“that isn’t me, is it?”
</p>

<p>
“Don’t you know yourself?” asked Frank, smiling.
</p>

<p>
“It reminds me of Cinderella,” said Dick, “when she was
changed into a fairy princess. I see it one night at Barnum’s.
What’ll Johnny Nolan say when he sees me? He won’t dare to speak to
such a young swell as I be now. Aint it rich?” and Dick burst into a loud
laugh. His fancy was tickled by the anticipation of his friend’s
surprise. Then the thought of the valuable gifts he had received occurred to
him, and he looked gratefully at Frank.
</p>

<p>
“You’re a brick,” he said.
</p>

<p>
“A what?”
</p>

<p>
“A brick! You’re a jolly good fellow to give me such a
present.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re quite welcome, Dick,” said Frank, kindly.
“I’m better off than you are, and I can spare the clothes just as
well as not. You must have a new hat though. But that we can get when we go
out. The old clothes you can make into a bundle.”
</p>

<p>
“Wait a minute till I get my handkercher,” and Dick pulled from the
pocket of the pants a dirty rag, which might have been white once, though it
did not look like it, and had apparently once formed a part of a sheet or
shirt.
</p>

<p>
“You mustn’t carry that,” said Frank.
</p>

<p>
“But I’ve got a cold,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Oh, I don’t mean you to go without a handkerchief. I’ll give
you one.”
</p>

<p>
Frank opened his trunk and pulled out two, which he gave to Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I wonder if I aint dreamin’,” said Dick, once more surveying
himself doubtfully in the glass. “I’m afraid I’m
dreamin’, and shall wake up in a barrel, as I did night afore
last.”
</p>

<p>
“Shall I pinch you so you can wake here?” asked Frank, playfully.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, seriously, “I wish you would.”
</p>

<p>
He pulled up the sleeve of his jacket, and Frank pinched him pretty hard, so
that Dick winced.
</p>

<p>
“Yes, I guess I’m awake,” said Dick; “you’ve got
a pair of nippers, you have. But what shall I do with my brush and
blacking?” he asked.
</p>

<p>
“You can leave them here till we come back,” said Frank.
“They will be safe.”
</p>

<p>
“Hold on a minute,” said Dick, surveying Frank’s boots with a
professional eye, “you aint got a good shine on them boots. I’ll
make ’em shine so you can see your face in ’em.”
</p>

<p>
And he was as good as his word.
</p>

<p>
“Thank you,” said Frank; “now you had better brush your own
shoes.”
</p>

<p>
This had not occurred to Dick, for in general the professional boot-black
considers his blacking too valuable to expend on his own shoes or boots, if he
is fortunate enough to possess a pair.
</p>

<p>
The two boys now went downstairs together. They met the same servant who had
spoken to Dick a few minutes before, but there was no recognition.
</p>

<p>
“He don’t know me,” said Dick. “He thinks I’m a
young swell like you.”
</p>

<p>
“What’s a swell?”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, a feller that wears nobby clothes like you.”
</p>

<p>
“And you, too, Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, “who’d ever have thought as I should
have turned into a swell?”
</p>

<p>
They had now got out on Broadway, and were slowly walking along the west side
by the Park, when who should Dick see in front of him, but Johnny Nolan?
</p>

<p>
Instantly Dick was seized with a fancy for witnessing Johnny’s amazement
at his change in appearance. He stole up behind him, and struck him on the
back.
</p>

<p>
“Hallo, Johnny, how many shines have you had?”
</p>

<p>
Johnny turned round expecting to see Dick, whose voice he recognized, but his
astonished eyes rested on a nicely dressed boy (the hat alone excepted) who
looked indeed like Dick, but so transformed in dress that it was difficult to
be sure of his identity.
</p>

<p>
“What luck, Johnny?” repeated Dick.
</p>

<p>
Johnny surveyed him from head to foot in great bewilderment.
</p>

<p>
“Who be you?” he said.
</p>

<p>
“Well, that’s a good one,” laughed Dick; “so you
don’t know Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“Where’d you get all them clothes?” asked Johnny. “Have
you been stealin’?”
</p>

<p>
“Say that again, and I’ll lick you. No, I’ve lent my clothes
to a young feller as was goin’ to a party, and didn’t have none fit
to wear, and so I put on my second-best for a change.”
</p>

<p>
Without deigning any further explanation, Dick went off, followed by the
astonished gaze of Johnny Nolan, who could not quite make up his mind whether
the neat-looking boy he had been talking with was really Ragged Dick or not.
</p>

<p>
In order to reach Chatham Street it was necessary to cross Broadway. This was
easier proposed than done. There is always such a throng of omnibuses, drays,
carriages, and vehicles of all kinds in the neighborhood of the Astor House,
that the crossing is formidable to one who is not used to it. Dick made nothing
of it, dodging in and out among the horses and wagons with perfect
self-possession. Reaching the opposite sidewalk, he looked back, and found that
Frank had retreated in dismay, and that the width of the street was between
them.
</p>

<p>
“Come across!” called out Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t see any chance,” said Frank, looking anxiously at
the prospect before him. “I’m afraid of being run over.”
</p>

<p>
“If you are, you can sue ’em for damages,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
Finally Frank got safely over after several narrow escapes, as he considered
them.
</p>

<p>
“Is it always so crowded?” he asked.
</p>

<p>
“A good deal worse sometimes,” said Dick. “I knowed a young
man once who waited six hours for a chance to cross, and at last got run over
by an omnibus, leaving a widder and a large family of orphan children. His
widder, a beautiful young woman, was obliged to start a peanut and apple stand.
There she is now.”
</p>

<p>
“Where?”
</p>

<p>
Dick pointed to a hideous old woman, of large proportions, wearing a bonnet of
immense size, who presided over an apple-stand close by.
</p>

<p>
Frank laughed.
</p>

<p>
“If that is the case,” he said, “I think I will patronize
her.”
</p>

<p>
“Leave it to me,” said Dick, winking.
</p>

<p>
He advanced gravely to the apple-stand, and said, “Old lady, have you
paid your taxes?”
</p>

<p>
The astonished woman opened her eyes.
</p>

<p>
“I’m a gov’ment officer,” said Dick, “sent by the
mayor to collect your taxes. I’ll take it in apples just to oblige. That
big red one will about pay what you’re owin’ to the
gov’ment.”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know nothing about no taxes,” said the old woman, in
bewilderment.
</p>

<p>
“Then,” said Dick, “I’ll let you off this time. Give us
two of your best apples, and my friend here, the President of the Common
Council, will pay you.”
</p>

<p>
Frank smiling, paid three cents apiece for the apples, and they sauntered on,
Dick remarking, “If these apples aint good, old lady, we’ll return
’em, and get our money back.” This would have been rather difficult
in his case, as the apple was already half consumed.
</p>

<p>
Chatham Street, where they wished to go, being on the East side, the two boys
crossed the Park. This is an enclosure of about ten acres, which years ago was
covered with a green sward, but is now a great thoroughfare for pedestrians and
contains several important public buildings. Dick pointed out the City Hall,
the Hall of Records, and the Rotunda. The former is a white building of large
size, and surmounted by a cupola.
</p>

<p>
“That’s where the mayor’s office is,” said Dick.
“Him and me are very good friends. I once blacked his boots by
partic’lar appointment. That’s the way I pay my city taxes.”
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap05" id="chap05"></a>CHAPTER V.<br />
CHATHAM STREET AND BROADWAY</h2>

<p>
They were soon in Chatham Street, walking between rows of ready-made clothing
shops, many of which had half their stock in trade exposed on the sidewalk. The
proprietors of these establishments stood at the doors, watching attentively
the passersby, extending urgent invitations to any who even glanced at the
goods to enter.
</p>

<p>
“Walk in, young gentlemen,” said a stout man, at the entrance of
one shop.
</p>

<p>
“No, I thank you,” replied Dick, “as the fly said to the
spider.”
</p>

<p>
“We’re selling off at less than cost.”
</p>

<p>
“Of course you be. That’s where you makes your money,” said
Dick. “There aint nobody of any enterprise that pretends to make any
profit on his goods.”
</p>

<p>
The Chatham Street trader looked after our hero as if he didn’t quite
comprehend him; but Dick, without waiting for a reply, passed on with his
companion.
</p>

<p>
In some of the shops auctions seemed to be going on.
</p>

<p>
“I am only offered two dollars, gentlemen, for this elegant pair of
doeskin pants, made of the very best of cloth. It’s a frightful
sacrifice. Who’ll give an eighth? Thank you, sir. Only seventeen
shillings! Why the cloth cost more by the yard!”
</p>

<p>
This speaker was standing on a little platform haranguing to three men, holding
in his hand meanwhile a pair of pants very loose in the legs, and presenting a
cheap Bowery look.
</p>

<p>
Frank and Dick paused before the shop door, and finally saw them knocked down
to rather a verdant-looking individual at three dollars.
</p>

<p>
“Clothes seem to be pretty cheap here,” said Frank.
</p>

<p>
“Yes, but Baxter Street is the cheapest place.”
</p>

<p>
“Is it?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes. Johnny Nolan got a whole rig-out there last week, for a
dollar,—coat, cap, vest, pants, and shoes. They was very good measure,
too, like my best clothes that I took off to oblige you.”
</p>

<p>
“I shall know where to come for clothes next time,” said Frank,
laughing. “I had no idea the city was so much cheaper than the country. I
suppose the Baxter Street tailors are fashionable?”
</p>

<p>
“In course they are. Me and Horace Greeley always go there for clothes.
When Horace gets a new suit, I always have one made just like it; but I
can’t go the white hat. It aint becomin’ to my style of
beauty.”
</p>

<p>
A little farther on a man was standing out on the sidewalk, distributing small
printed handbills. One was handed to Frank, which he read as follows,—
</p>

<p>
“GRAND CLOSING-OUT SALE!—A variety of Beautiful and Costly Articles
for Sale, at a Dollar apiece. Unparalleled Inducements! Walk in,
Gentlemen!”
</p>

<p>
“Whereabouts is this sale?” asked Frank.
</p>

<p>
“In here, young gentlemen,” said a black-whiskered individual, who
appeared suddenly on the scene. “Walk in.”
</p>

<p>
“Shall we go in, Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“It’s a swindlin’ shop,” said Dick, in a low voice.
“I’ve been there. That man’s a regular cheat. He’s seen
me before, but he don’t know me coz of my clothes.”
</p>

<p>
“Step in and see the articles,” said the man, persuasively.
“You needn’t buy, you know.”
</p>

<p>
“Are all the articles worth more’n a dollar?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said the other, “and some worth a great deal
more.”
</p>

<p>
“Such as what?”
</p>

<p>
“Well, there’s a silver pitcher worth twenty dollars.”
</p>

<p>
“And you sell it for a dollar. That’s very kind of you,” said
Dick, innocently.
</p>

<p>
“Walk in, and you’ll understand it.”
</p>

<p>
“No, I guess not,” said Dick. “My servants is so dishonest
that I wouldn’t like to trust ’em with a silver pitcher. Come
along, Frank. I hope you’ll succeed in your charitable enterprise of
supplyin’ the public with silver pitchers at nineteen dollars less than
they are worth.”
</p>

<p>
“How does he manage, Dick?” asked Frank, as they went on.
</p>

<p>
“All his articles are numbered, and he makes you pay a dollar, and then
shakes some dice, and whatever the figgers come to, is the number of the
article you draw. Most of ’em aint worth sixpence.”
</p>

<p>
A hat and cap store being close at hand, Dick and Frank went in. For
seventy-five cents, which Frank insisted on paying, Dick succeeded in getting
quite a neat-looking cap, which corresponded much better with his appearance
than the one he had on. The last, not being considered worth keeping, Dick
dropped on the sidewalk, from which, on looking back, he saw it picked up by a
brother boot-black who appeared to consider it better than his own.
</p>

<p>
They retraced their steps and went up Chambers Street to Broadway. At the
corner of Broadway and Chambers Street is a large white marble warehouse, which
attracted Frank’s attention.
</p>

<p>
“What building is that?” he asked, with interest.
</p>

<p>
“That belongs to my friend A. T. Stewart,” said Dick.
“It’s the biggest store on Broadway.* If I ever retire from
boot-blackin’, and go into mercantile pursuits, I may buy him out, or
build another store that’ll take the shine off this one.”
</p>

<p class="footnote">
* Mr. Stewart’s Tenth Street store was not open at the time Dick spoke.
</p>

<p>
“Were you ever in the store?” asked Frank.
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “but I’m intimate with one of
Stewart’s partners. He is a cash boy, and does nothing but take money all
day.”
</p>

<p>
“A very agreeable employment,” said Frank, laughing.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, “I’d like to be in it.”
</p>

<p>
The boys crossed to the West side of Broadway, and walked slowly up the street.
To Frank it was a very interesting spectacle. Accustomed to the quiet of the
country, there was something fascinating in the crowds of people thronging the
sidewalks, and the great variety of vehicles constantly passing and repassing
in the street. Then again the shop-windows with their multifarious contents
interested and amused him, and he was constantly checking Dick to look in at
some well-stocked window.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t see how so many shopkeepers can find people enough to buy
of them,” he said. “We haven’t got but two stores in our
village, and Broadway seems to be full of them.”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick; “and its pretty much the same in the
avenoos, ’specially the Third, Sixth, and Eighth avenoos. The Bowery,
too, is a great place for shoppin’. There everybody sells cheaper’n
anybody else, and nobody pretends to make no profit on their goods.”
</p>

<p>
“Where’s Barnum’s Museum?” asked Frank.
</p>

<p>
“Oh, that’s down nearly opposite the Astor House,” said Dick.
“Didn’t you see a great building with lots of flags?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, that’s Barnum’s.* That’s where the Happy Family
live, and the lions, and bears, and curiosities generally. It’s a tip-top
place. Haven’t you ever been there? It’s most as good as the Old
Bowery, only the plays isn’t quite so excitin’.”
</p>

<p class="footnote">
* Since destroyed by fire, and rebuilt farther up Broadway, and again burned
down in February.
</p>

<p>
“I’ll go if I get time,” said Frank. “There is a boy at
home who came to New York a month ago, and went to Barnum’s, and has been
talking about it ever since, so I suppose it must be worth seeing.”
</p>

<p>
“They’ve got a great play at the Old Bowery now,” pursued
Dick. “’Tis called the ‘Demon of the Danube.’ The Demon
falls in love with a young woman, and drags her by the hair up to the top of a
steep rock where his castle stands.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s a queer way of showing his love,” said Frank,
laughing.
</p>

<p>
“She didn’t want to go with him, you know, but was in love with
another chap. When he heard about his girl bein’ carried off, he felt
awful, and swore an oath not to rest till he had got her free. Well, at last he
got into the castle by some underground passage, and he and the Demon had a
fight. Oh, it was bully seein’ ’em roll round on the stage,
cuttin’ and slashin’ at each other.”
</p>

<p>
“And which got the best of it?”
</p>

<p>
“At first the Demon seemed to be ahead, but at last the young Baron got
him down, and struck a dagger into his heart, sayin’, ‘Die, false
and perjured villain! The dogs shall feast upon thy carcass!’ and then
the Demon give an awful howl and died. Then the Baron seized his body, and
threw it over the precipice.”
</p>

<p>
“It seems to me the actor who plays the Demon ought to get extra pay, if
he has to be treated that way.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s so,” said Dick; “but I guess he’s used to
it. It seems to agree with his constitution.”
</p>

<p>
“What building is that?” asked Frank, pointing to a structure
several rods back from the street, with a large yard in front. It was an
unusual sight for Broadway, all the other buildings in that neighborhood being
even with the street.
</p>

<p>
“That is the New York Hospital,” said Dick. “They’re a
rich institution, and take care of sick people on very reasonable terms.”
</p>

<p>
“Did you ever go in there?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick; “there was a friend of mine, Johnny Mullen,
he was a newsboy, got run over by a omnibus as he was crossin’ Broadway
down near Park Place. He was carried to the Hospital, and me and some of his
friends paid his board while he was there. It was only three dollars a week,
which was very cheap, considerin’ all the care they took of him. I got
leave to come and see him while he was here. Everything looked so nice and
comfortable, that I thought a little of coaxin’ a omnibus driver to run
over me, so I might go there too.”
</p>

<p>
“Did your friend have to have his leg cut off?” asked Frank,
interested.
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “though there was a young student there that
was very anxious to have it cut off; but it wasn’t done, and Johnny is
around the streets as well as ever.”
</p>

<p>
While this conversation was going on they reached No. 365, at the corner of
Franklin Street.*
</p>

<p class="footnote">
* Now the office of the Merchants’ Union Express Company.
</p>

<p>
“That’s Taylor’s Saloon,” said Dick. “When I come
into a fortun’ I shall take my meals there reg’lar.”
</p>

<p>
“I have heard of it very often,” said Frank. “It is said to
be very elegant. Suppose we go in and take an ice-cream. It will give us a
chance to see it to better advantage.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you,” said Dick; “I think that’s the most
agreeable way of seein’ the place myself.”
</p>

<p>
The boys entered, and found themselves in a spacious and elegant saloon,
resplendent with gilding, and adorned on all sides by costly mirrors. They sat
down to a small table with a marble top, and Frank gave the order.
</p>

<p>
“It reminds me of Aladdin’s palace,” said Frank, looking
about him.
</p>

<p>
“Does it?” said Dick; “he must have had plenty of
money.”
</p>

<p>
“He had an old lamp, which he had only to rub, when the Slave of the Lamp
would appear, and do whatever he wanted.”
</p>

<p>
“That must have been a valooable lamp. I’d be willin’ to give
all my Erie shares for it.”
</p>

<p>
There was a tall, gaunt individual at the next table, who apparently heard this
last remark of Dick’s. Turning towards our hero, he said, “May I
inquire, young man, whether you are largely interested in this Erie
Railroad?”
</p>

<p>
“I haven’t got no property except what’s invested in
Erie,” said Dick, with a comical side-glance at Frank.
</p>

<p>
“Indeed! I suppose the investment was made by your guardian.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “I manage my property myself.”
</p>

<p>
“And I presume your dividends have not been large?”
</p>

<p>
“Why, no,” said Dick; “you’re about right there. They
haven’t.”
</p>

<p>
“As I supposed. It’s poor stock. Now, my young friend, I can
recommend a much better investment, which will yield you a large annual income.
I am agent of the Excelsior Copper Mining Company, which possesses one of the
most productive mines in the world. It’s sure to yield fifty per cent. on
the investment. Now, all you have to do is to sell out your Erie shares, and
invest in our stock, and I’ll insure you a fortune in three years. How
many shares did you say you had?”
</p>

<p>
“I didn’t say, that I remember,” said Dick. “Your offer
is very kind and obligin’, and as soon as I get time I’ll see about
it.”
</p>

<p>
“I hope you will,” said the stranger. “Permit me to give you
my card. ‘Samuel Snap, No. — Wall Street.’ I shall be most
happy to receive a call from you, and exhibit the maps of our mine. I should be
glad to have you mention the matter also to your friends. I am confident you
could do no greater service than to induce them to embark in our
enterprise.”
</p>

<p>
“Very good,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
Here the stranger left the table, and walked up to the desk to settle his bill.
</p>

<p>
“You see what it is to be a man of fortun’, Frank,” said
Dick, “and wear good clothes. I wonder what that chap’ll say when
he sees me blackin’ boots to-morrow in the street?”
</p>

<p>
“Perhaps you earn your money more honorably than he does, after
all,” said Frank. “Some of these mining companies are nothing but
swindles, got up to cheat people out of their money.”
</p>

<p>
“He’s welcome to all he gets out of me,” said Dick.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap06" id="chap06"></a>CHAPTER VI.<br />
UP BROADWAY TO MADISON SQUARE</h2>

<p>
As the boys pursued their way up Broadway, Dick pointed out the prominent
hotels and places of amusement. Frank was particularly struck with the imposing
fronts of the St. Nicholas and Metropolitan Hotels, the former of white marble,
the latter of a subdued brown hue, but not less elegant in its internal
appointments. He was not surprised to be informed that each of these splendid
structures cost with the furnishing not far from a million dollars.
</p>

<p>
At Eighth Street Dick turned to the right, and pointed out the Clinton Hall
Building now occupied by the Mercantile Library, comprising at that time over
fifty thousand volumes.*
</p>

<p class="footnote">
* Now not far from one hundred thousand.
</p>

<p>
A little farther on they came to a large building standing by itself just at
the opening of Third and Fourth Avenues, and with one side on each.
</p>

<p>
“What is that building?” asked Frank.
</p>

<p>
“That’s the Cooper Institute,” said Dick; “built by Mr.
Cooper, a particular friend of mine. Me and Peter Cooper used to go to school
together.”
</p>

<p>
“What is there inside?” asked Frank.
</p>

<p>
“There’s a hall for public meetin’s and lectures in the
basement, and a readin’ room and a picture gallery up above,” said
Dick.
</p>

<p>
Directly opposite Cooper Institute, Frank saw a very large building of brick,
covering about an acre of ground.
</p>

<p>
“Is that a hotel?” he asked.
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “that’s the Bible House. It’s
the place where they make Bibles. I was in there once,—saw a big pile of
’em.”
</p>

<p>
“Did you ever read the Bible?” asked Frank, who had some idea of
the neglected state of Dick’s education.
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “I’ve heard it’s a good book,
but I never read one. I aint much on readin’. It makes my head
ache.”
</p>

<p>
“I suppose you can’t read very fast.”
</p>

<p>
“I can read the little words pretty well, but the big ones is what stick
me.”
</p>

<p>
“If I lived in the city, you might come every evening to me, and I would
teach you.”
</p>

<p>
“Would you take so much trouble about me?” asked Dick, earnestly.
</p>

<p>
“Certainly; I should like to see you getting on. There isn’t much
chance of that if you don’t know how to read and write.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re a good feller,” said Dick, gratefully. “I wish
you did live in New York. I’d like to know somethin’. Whereabouts
do you live?”
</p>

<p>
“About fifty miles off, in a town on the left bank of the Hudson. I wish
you’d come up and see me sometime. I would like to have you come and stop
two or three days.”
</p>

<p>
“Honor bright?”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t understand.”
</p>

<p>
“Do you mean it?” asked Dick, incredulously.
</p>

<p>
“Of course I do. Why shouldn’t I?”
</p>

<p>
“What would your folks say if they knowed you asked a boot-black to visit
you?”
</p>

<p>
“You are none the worse for being a boot-black, Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“I aint used to genteel society,” said Dick. “I
shouldn’t know how to behave.”
</p>

<p>
“Then I could show you. You won’t be a boot-black all your life,
you know.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “I’m goin’ to knock off when I
get to be ninety.”
</p>

<p>
“Before that, I hope,” said Frank, smiling.
</p>

<p>
“I really wish I could get somethin’ else to do,” said Dick,
soberly. “I’d like to be a office boy, and learn business, and grow
up ’spectable.”
</p>

<p>
“Why don’t you try, and see if you can’t get a place,
Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“Who’d take Ragged Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“But you aint ragged now, Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “I look a little better than I did in my
Washington coat and Louis Napoleon pants. But if I got in a office, they
wouldn’t give me more’n three dollars a week, and I couldn’t
live ’spectable on that.”
</p>

<p>
“No, I suppose not,” said Frank, thoughtfully. “But you would
get more at the end of the first year.”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick; “but by that time I’d be
nothin’ but skin and bones.”
</p>

<p>
Frank laughed. “That reminds me,” he said, “of the story of
an Irishman, who, out of economy, thought he would teach his horse to feed on
shavings. So he provided the horse with a pair of green spectacles which made
the shavings look eatable. But unfortunately, just as the horse got learned, he
up and died.”
</p>

<p>
“The hoss must have been a fine specimen of architectur’ by the
time he got through,” remarked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Whereabouts are we now?” asked Frank, as they emerged from Fourth
Avenue into Union Square.
</p>

<p>
“That is Union Park,” said Dick, pointing to a beautiful enclosure,
in the centre of which was a pond, with a fountain playing.
</p>

<p>
“Is that the statue of General Washington?” asked Frank, pointing
to a bronze equestrian statue, on a granite pedestal.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick; “he’s growed some since he was
President. If he’d been as tall as that when he fit in the Revolution,
he’d have walloped the Britishers some, I reckon.”
</p>

<p>
Frank looked up at the statue, which is fourteen and a half feet high, and
acknowledged the justice of Dick’s remark.
</p>

<p>
“How about the coat, Dick?” he asked. “Would it fit
you?”
</p>

<p>
“Well, it might be rather loose,” said Dick, “I aint much
more’n ten feet high with my boots off.”
</p>

<p>
“No, I should think not,” said Frank, smiling. “You’re
a queer boy, Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, I’ve been brought up queer. Some boys is born with a silver
spoon in their mouth. Victoria’s boys is born with a gold spoon, set with
di’monds; but gold and silver was scarce when I was born, and mine was
pewter.”
</p>

<p>
“Perhaps the gold and silver will come by and by, Dick. Did you ever hear
of Dick Whittington?”
</p>

<p>
“Never did. Was he a Ragged Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“I shouldn’t wonder if he was. At any rate he was very poor when he
was a boy, but he didn’t stay so. Before he died, he became Lord Mayor of
London.”
</p>

<p>
“Did he?” asked Dick, looking interested. “How did he do
it?”
</p>

<p>
“Why, you see, a rich merchant took pity on him, and gave him a home in
his own house, where he used to stay with the servants, being employed in
little errands. One day the merchant noticed Dick picking up pins and needles
that had been dropped, and asked him why he did it. Dick told him he was going
to sell them when he got enough. The merchant was pleased with his saving
disposition, and when soon after, he was going to send a vessel to foreign
parts, he told Dick he might send anything he pleased in it, and it should be
sold to his advantage. Now Dick had nothing in the world but a kitten which had
been given him a short time before.”
</p>

<p>
“How much taxes did he have to pay on it?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Not very high, probably. But having only the kitten, he concluded to
send it along. After sailing a good many months, during which the kitten grew
up to be a strong cat, the ship touched at an island never before known, which
happened to be infested with rats and mice to such an extent that they worried
everybody’s life out, and even ransacked the king’s palace. To make
a long story short, the captain, seeing how matters stood, brought Dick’s
cat ashore, and she soon made the rats and mice scatter. The king was highly
delighted when he saw what havoc she made among the rats and mice, and resolved
to have her at any price. So he offered a great quantity of gold for her,
which, of course, the captain was glad to accept. It was faithfully carried
back to Dick, and laid the foundation of his fortune. He prospered as he grew
up, and in time became a very rich merchant, respected by all, and before he
died was elected Lord Mayor of London.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s a pretty good story,” said Dick; “but I
don’t believe all the cats in New York will ever make me mayor.”
</p>

<p>
“No, probably not, but you may rise in some other way. A good many
distinguished men have once been poor boys. There’s hope for you, Dick,
if you’ll try.”
</p>

<p>
“Nobody ever talked to me so before,” said Dick. “They just
called me Ragged Dick, and told me I’d grow up to be a vagabone (boys who
are better educated need not be surprised at Dick’s blunders) and come to
the gallows.”
</p>

<p>
“Telling you so won’t make it turn out so, Dick. If you’ll
try to be somebody, and grow up into a respectable member of society, you will.
You may not become rich,—it isn’t everybody that becomes rich, you
know—but you can obtain a good position, and be respected.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll try,” said Dick, earnestly. “I needn’t have
been Ragged Dick so long if I hadn’t spent my money in goin’ to the
theatre, and treatin’ boys to oyster-stews, and bettin’ money on
cards, and such like.”
</p>

<p>
“Have you lost money that way?”
</p>

<p>
“Lots of it. One time I saved up five dollars to buy me a new rig-out,
cos my best suit was all in rags, when Limpy Jim wanted me to play a game with
him.”
</p>

<p>
“Limpy Jim?” said Frank, interrogatively.
</p>

<p>
“Yes, he’s lame; that’s what makes us call him Limpy
Jim.”
</p>

<p>
“I suppose you lost?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, I lost every penny, and had to sleep out, cos I hadn’t a cent
to pay for lodgin’. ’Twas a awful cold night, and I got most
froze.”
</p>

<p>
“Wouldn’t Jim let you have any of the money he had won to pay for a
lodging?”
</p>

<p>
“No; I axed him for five cents, but he wouldn’t let me have
it.”
</p>

<p>
“Can you get lodging for five cents?” asked Frank, in surprise.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, “but not at the Fifth Avenue Hotel.
That’s it right out there.”
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap07" id="chap07"></a>CHAPTER VII.<br />
THE POCKET-BOOK</h2>

<p>
They had reached the junction of Broadway and of Fifth Avenue. Before them was
a beautiful park of ten acres. On the left-hand side was a large marble
building, presenting a fine appearance with its extensive white front. This was
the building at which Dick pointed.
</p>

<p>
“Is that the Fifth Avenue Hotel?” asked Frank. “I’ve
heard of it often. My Uncle William always stops there when he comes to New
York.”
</p>

<p>
“I once slept on the outside of it,” said Dick. “They was
very reasonable in their charges, and told me I might come again.”
</p>

<p>
“Perhaps sometime you’ll be able to sleep inside,” said
Frank.
</p>

<p>
“I guess that’ll be when Queen Victoria goes to the Five Points to
live.”
</p>

<p>
“It looks like a palace,” said Frank. “The queen
needn’t be ashamed to live in such a beautiful building as that.”
</p>

<p>
Though Frank did not know it, one of the queen’s palaces is far from
being as fine a looking building as the Fifth Avenue Hotel. St. James’
Palace is a very ugly-looking brick structure, and appears much more like a
factory than like the home of royalty. There are few hotels in the world as
fine-looking as this democratic institution.
</p>

<p>
At that moment a gentleman passed them on the sidewalk, who looked back at
Dick, as if his face seemed familiar.
</p>

<p>
“I know that man,” said Dick, after he had passed.
“He’s one of my customers.”
</p>

<p>
“What is his name?”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know.”
</p>

<p>
“He looked back as if he thought he knew you.”
</p>

<p>
“He would have knowed me at once if it hadn’t been for my new
clothes,” said Dick. “I don’t look much like Ragged Dick
now.”
</p>

<p>
“I suppose your face looked familiar.”
</p>

<p>
“All but the dirt,” said Dick, laughing. “I don’t
always have the chance of washing my face and hands in the Astor House.”
</p>

<p>
“You told me,” said Frank, “that there was a place where you
could get lodging for five cents. Where’s that?”
</p>

<p>
“It’s the News-boys’ Lodgin’ House, on Fulton
Street,” said Dick, “up over the ‘Sun’ office.
It’s a good place. I don’t know what us boys would do without it.
They give you supper for six cents, and a bed for five cents more.”
</p>

<p>
“I suppose some boys don’t even have the five cents to
pay,—do they?”
</p>

<p>
“They’ll trust the boys,” said Dick. “But I don’t
like to get trusted. I’d be ashamed to get trusted for five cents, or ten
either. One night I was comin’ down Chatham Street, with fifty cents in
my pocket. I was goin’ to get a good oyster-stew, and then go to the
lodgin’ house; but somehow it slipped through a hole in my
trowses-pocket, and I hadn’t a cent left. If it had been summer I
shouldn’t have cared, but it’s rather tough stayin’ out
winter nights.”
</p>

<p>
Frank, who had always possessed a good home of his own, found it hard to
realize that the boy who was walking at his side had actually walked the
streets in the cold without a home, or money to procure the common comfort of a
bed.
</p>

<p>
“What did you do?” he asked, his voice full of sympathy.
</p>

<p>
“I went to the ‘Times’ office. I knowed one of the pressmen,
and he let me set down in a corner, where I was warm, and I soon got fast
asleep.”
</p>

<p>
“Why don’t you get a room somewhere, and so always have a home to
go to?”
</p>

<p>
“I dunno,” said Dick. “I never thought of it. P’rhaps I
may hire a furnished house on Madison Square.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s where Flora McFlimsey lived.”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know her,” said Dick, who had never read the popular
poem of which she is the heroine.
</p>

<p>
While this conversation was going on, they had turned into Twenty-fifth Street,
and had by this time reached Third Avenue.
</p>

<p>
Just before entering it, their attention was drawn to the rather singular
conduct of an individual in front of them. Stopping suddenly, he appeared to
pick up something from the sidewalk, and then looked about him in rather a
confused way.
</p>

<p>
“I know his game,” whispered Dick. “Come along and
you’ll see what it is.”
</p>

<p>
He hurried Frank forward until they overtook the man, who had come to a
stand-still.
</p>

<p>
“Have you found anything?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said the man, “I’ve found this.”
</p>

<p>
He exhibited a wallet which seemed stuffed with bills, to judge from its
plethoric appearance.
</p>

<p>
“Whew!” exclaimed Dick; “you’re in luck.”
</p>

<p>
“I suppose somebody has lost it,” said the man, “and will
offer a handsome reward.”
</p>

<p>
“Which you’ll get.”
</p>

<p>
“Unfortunately I am obliged to take the next train to Boston.
That’s where I live. I haven’t time to hunt up the owner.”
</p>

<p>
“Then I suppose you’ll take the pocket-book with you,” said
Dick, with assumed simplicity.
</p>

<p>
“I should like to leave it with some honest fellow who would see it
returned to the owner,” said the man, glancing at the boys.
</p>

<p>
“I’m honest,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I’ve no doubt of it,” said the other. “Well, young
man, I’ll make you an offer. You take the pocket-book—”
</p>

<p>
“All right. Hand it over, then.”
</p>

<p>
“Wait a minute. There must be a large sum inside. I shouldn’t
wonder if there might be a thousand dollars. The owner will probably give you a
hundred dollars reward.”
</p>

<p>
“Why don’t you stay and get it?” asked Frank.
</p>

<p>
“I would, only there is sickness in my family, and I must get home as
soon as possible. Just give me twenty dollars, and I’ll hand you the
pocket-book, and let you make whatever you can out of it. Come, that’s a
good offer. What do you say?”
</p>

<p>
Dick was well dressed, so that the other did not regard it as at all improbable
that he might possess that sum. He was prepared, however, to let him have it
for less, if necessary.
</p>

<p>
“Twenty dollars is a good deal of money,” said Dick, appearing to
hesitate.
</p>

<p>
“You’ll get it back, and a good deal more,” said the
stranger, persuasively.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know but I shall. What would you do, Frank?”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know but I would,” said Frank, “if
you’ve got the money.” He was not a little surprised to think that
Dick had so much by him.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know but I will,” said Dick, after some
irresolution. “I guess I won’t lose much.”
</p>

<p>
“You can’t lose anything,” said the stranger briskly.
“Only be quick, for I must be on my way to the cars. I am afraid I shall
miss them now.”
</p>

<p>
Dick pulled out a bill from his pocket, and handed it to the stranger,
receiving the pocket-book in return. At that moment a policeman turned the
corner, and the stranger, hurriedly thrusting the bill into his pocket, without
looking at it, made off with rapid steps.
</p>

<p>
“What is there in the pocket-book, Dick?” asked Frank in some
excitement. “I hope there’s enough to pay you for the money you
gave him.”
</p>

<p>
Dick laughed.
</p>

<p>
“I’ll risk that,” said he.
</p>

<p>
“But you gave him twenty dollars. That’s a good deal of
money.”
</p>

<p>
“If I had given him as much as that, I should deserve to be cheated out
of it.”
</p>

<p>
“But you did,—didn’t you?”
</p>

<p>
“He thought so.”
</p>

<p>
“What was it, then?”
</p>

<p>
“It was nothing but a dry-goods circular got up to imitate a
bank-bill.”
</p>

<p>
Frank looked sober.
</p>

<p>
“You ought not to have cheated him, Dick,” he said, reproachfully.
</p>

<p>
“Didn’t he want to cheat me?”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know.”
</p>

<p>
“What do you s’pose there is in that pocket-book?” asked
Dick, holding it up.
</p>

<p>
Frank surveyed its ample proportions, and answered sincerely enough,
“Money, and a good deal of it.”
</p>

<p>
“There aint stamps enough in it to buy a oyster-stew,” said Dick.
“If you don’t believe it, just look while I open it.”
</p>

<p>
So saying he opened the pocket-book, and showed Frank that it was stuffed out
with pieces of blank paper, carefully folded up in the shape of bills. Frank,
who was unused to city life, and had never heard anything of the
“drop-game” looked amazed at this unexpected development.
</p>

<p>
“I knowed how it was all the time,” said Dick. “I guess I got
the best of him there. This wallet’s worth somethin’. I shall use
it to keep my stiffkit’s of Erie stock in, and all my other papers what
aint of no use to anybody but the owner.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s the kind of papers it’s got in it now,” said
Frank, smiling.
</p>

<p>
“That’s so!” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“By hokey!” he exclaimed suddenly, “if there aint the old
chap comin’ back ag’in. He looks as if he’d heard bad news
from his sick family.”
</p>

<p>
By this time the pocket-book dropper had come up.
</p>

<p>
Approaching the boys, he said in an undertone to Dick, “Give me back that
pocket-book, you young rascal!”
</p>

<p>
“Beg your pardon, mister,” said Dick, “but was you
addressin’ me?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, I was.”
</p>

<p>
“’Cause you called me by the wrong name. I’ve knowed some
rascals, but I aint the honor to belong to the family.”
</p>

<p>
He looked significantly at the other as he spoke, which didn’t improve
the man’s temper. Accustomed to swindle others, he did not fancy being
practised upon in return.
</p>

<p>
“Give me back that pocket-book,” he repeated in a threatening
voice.
</p>

<p>
“Couldn’t do it,” said Dick, coolly. “I’m
go’n’ to restore it to the owner. The contents is so valooable that
most likely the loss has made him sick, and he’ll be likely to come down
liberal to the honest finder.”
</p>

<p>
“You gave me a bogus bill,” said the man.
</p>

<p>
“It’s what I use myself,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“You’ve swindled me.”
</p>

<p>
“I thought it was the other way.”
</p>

<p>
“None of your nonsense,” said the man angrily. “If you
don’t give up that pocket-book, I’ll call a policeman.”
</p>

<p>
“I wish you would,” said Dick. “They’ll know most
likely whether it’s Stewart or Astor that’s lost the pocket-book,
and I can get ’em to return it.”
</p>

<p>
The “dropper,” whose object it was to recover the pocket-book, in
order to try the same game on a more satisfactory customer, was irritated by
Dick’s refusal, and above all by the coolness he displayed. He resolved
to make one more attempt.
</p>

<p>
“Do you want to pass the night in the Tombs?” he asked.
</p>

<p>
“Thank you for your very obligin’ proposal,” said Dick;
“but it aint convenient to-day. Any other time, when you’d like to
have me come and stop with you, I’m agreeable; but my two youngest
children is down with the measles, and I expect I’ll have to set up all
night to take care of ’em. Is the Tombs, in gineral, a pleasant place of
residence?”
</p>

<p>
Dick asked this question with an air of so much earnestness that Frank could
scarcely forbear laughing, though it is hardly necessary to say that the
dropper was by no means so inclined.
</p>

<p>
“You’ll know sometime,” he said, scowling.
</p>

<p>
“I’ll make you a fair offer,” said Dick. “If I get
more’n fifty dollars as a reward for my honesty, I’ll divide with
you. But I say, aint it most time to go back to your sick family in
Boston?”
</p>

<p>
Finding that nothing was to be made out of Dick, the man strode away with a
muttered curse.
</p>

<p>
“You were too smart for him, Dick,” said Frank.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, “I aint knocked round the city streets all
my life for nothin’.”
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap08" id="chap08"></a>CHAPTER VIII.<br />
DICK’S EARLY HISTORY</h2>

<p>
“Have you always lived in New York, Dick?” asked Frank, after a
pause.
</p>

<p>
“Ever since I can remember.”
</p>

<p>
“I wish you’d tell me a little about yourself. Have you got any
father or mother?”
</p>

<p>
“I aint got no mother. She died when I wasn’t but three years old.
My father went to sea; but he went off before mother died, and nothin’
was ever heard of him. I expect he got wrecked, or died at sea.”
</p>

<p>
“And what became of you when your mother died?”
</p>

<p>
“The folks she boarded with took care of me, but they was poor, and they
couldn’t do much. When I was seven the woman died, and her husband went
out West, and then I had to scratch for myself.”
</p>

<p>
“At seven years old!” exclaimed Frank, in amazement.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, “I was a little feller to take care of
myself, but,” he continued with pardonable pride, “I did it.”
</p>

<p>
“What could you do?”
</p>

<p>
“Sometimes one thing, and sometimes another,” said Dick. “I
changed my business accordin’ as I had to. Sometimes I was a newsboy, and
diffused intelligence among the masses, as I heard somebody say once in a big
speech he made in the Park. Them was the times when Horace Greeley and James
Gordon Bennett made money.”
</p>

<p>
“Through your enterprise?” suggested Frank.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick; “but I give it up after a while.”
</p>

<p>
“What for?”
</p>

<p>
“Well, they didn’t always put news enough in their papers, and
people wouldn’t buy ’em as fast as I wanted ’em to. So one
mornin’ I was stuck on a lot of Heralds, and I thought I’d make a
sensation. So I called out ‘GREAT NEWS! QUEEN VICTORIA
ASSASSINATED!’ All my Heralds went off like hot cakes, and I went off,
too, but one of the gentlemen what got sold remembered me, and said he’d
have me took up, and that’s what made me change my business.”
</p>

<p>
“That wasn’t right, Dick,” said Frank.
</p>

<p>
“I know it,” said Dick; “but lots of boys does it.”
</p>

<p>
“That don’t make it any better.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick, “I was sort of ashamed at the time,
’specially about one poor old gentleman,—a Englishman he was. He
couldn’t help cryin’ to think the queen was dead, and his hands
shook when he handed me the money for the paper.”
</p>

<p>
“What did you do next?”
</p>

<p>
“I went into the match business,” said Dick; “but it was
small sales and small profits. Most of the people I called on had just laid in
a stock, and didn’t want to buy. So one cold night, when I hadn’t
money enough to pay for a lodgin’, I burned the last of my matches to
keep me from freezin’. But it cost too much to get warm that way, and I
couldn’t keep it up.”
</p>

<p>
“You’ve seen hard times, Dick,” said Frank, compassionately.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, “I’ve knowed what it was to be hungry
and cold, with nothin’ to eat or to warm me; but there’s one thing
I never could do,” he added, proudly.
</p>

<p>
“What’s that?”
</p>

<p>
“I never stole,” said Dick. “It’s mean and I
wouldn’t do it.”
</p>

<p>
“Were you ever tempted to?”
</p>

<p>
“Lots of times. Once I had been goin’ round all day, and
hadn’t sold any matches, except three cents’ worth early in the
mornin’. With that I bought an apple, thinkin’ I should get some
more bimeby. When evenin’ come I was awful hungry. I went into a
baker’s just to look at the bread. It made me feel kind o’ good
just to look at the bread and cakes, and I thought maybe they would give me
some. I asked ’em wouldn’t they give me a loaf, and take their pay
in matches. But they said they’d got enough matches to last three months;
so there wasn’t any chance for a trade. While I was standin’ at the
stove warmin’ me, the baker went into a back room, and I felt so hungry I
thought I would take just one loaf, and go off with it. There was such a big
pile I don’t think he’d have known it.”
</p>

<p>
“But you didn’t do it?”
</p>

<p>
“No, I didn’t and I was glad of it, for when the man came in
ag’in, he said he wanted some one to carry some cake to a lady in St.
Mark’s Place. His boy was sick, and he hadn’t no one to send; so he
told me he’d give me ten cents if I would go. My business wasn’t
very pressin’ just then, so I went, and when I come back, I took my pay
in bread and cakes. Didn’t they taste good, though?”
</p>

<p>
“So you didn’t stay long in the match business, Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“No, I couldn’t sell enough to make it pay. Then there was some
folks that wanted me to sell cheaper to them; so I couldn’t make any
profit. There was one old lady—she was rich, too, for she lived in a big
brick house—beat me down so, that I didn’t make no profit at all;
but she wouldn’t buy without, and I hadn’t sold none that day; so I
let her have them. I don’t see why rich folks should be so hard upon a
poor boy that wants to make a livin’.”
</p>

<p>
“There’s a good deal of meanness in the world, I’m afraid,
Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“If everybody was like you and your uncle,” said Dick, “there
would be some chance for poor people. If I was rich I’d try to help
’em along.”
</p>

<p>
“Perhaps you will be rich sometime, Dick.”
</p>

<p>
Dick shook his head.
</p>

<p>
“I’m afraid all my wallets will be like this,” said Dick,
indicating the one he had received from the dropper, “and will be full of
papers what aint of no use to anybody except the owner.”
</p>

<p>
“That depends very much on yourself, Dick,” said Frank.
“Stewart wasn’t always rich, you know.”
</p>

<p>
“Wasn’t he?”
</p>

<p>
“When he first came to New York as a young man he was a teacher, and
teachers are not generally very rich. At last he went into business, starting
in a small way, and worked his way up by degrees. But there was one thing he
determined in the beginning: that he would be strictly honorable in all his
dealings, and never overreach any one for the sake of making money. If there
was a chance for him, Dick, there is a chance for you.”
</p>

<p>
“He knowed enough to be a teacher, and I’m awful ignorant,”
said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“But you needn’t stay so.”
</p>

<p>
“How can I help it?”
</p>

<p>
“Can’t you learn at school?”
</p>

<p>
“I can’t go to school ’cause I’ve got my livin’
to earn. It wouldn’t do me much good if I learned to read and write, and
just as I’d got learned I starved to death.”
</p>

<p>
“But are there no night-schools?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes.”
</p>

<p>
“Why don’t you go? I suppose you don’t work in the
evenings.”
</p>

<p>
“I never cared much about it,” said Dick, “and that’s
the truth. But since I’ve got to talkin’ with you, I think more
about it. I guess I’ll begin to go.”
</p>

<p>
“I wish you would, Dick. You’ll make a smart man if you only get a
little education.”
</p>

<p>
“Do you think so?” asked Dick, doubtfully.
</p>

<p>
“I know so. A boy who has earned his own living since he was seven years
old must have something in him. I feel very much interested in you, Dick.
You’ve had a hard time of it so far in life, but I think better times are
in store. I want you to do well, and I feel sure you can if you only
try.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re a good fellow,” said Dick, gratefully.
“I’m afraid I’m a pretty rough customer, but I aint as bad as
some. I mean to turn over a new leaf, and try to grow up
’spectable.”
</p>

<p>
“There’ve been a great many boys begin as low down as you, Dick,
that have grown up respectable and honored. But they had to work pretty hard
for it.”
</p>

<p>
“I’m willin’ to work hard,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“And you must not only work hard, but work in the right way.”
</p>

<p>
“What’s the right way?”
</p>

<p>
“You began in the right way when you determined never to steal, or do
anything mean or dishonorable, however strongly tempted to do so. That will
make people have confidence in you when they come to know you. But, in order to
succeed well, you must manage to get as good an education as you can. Until you
do, you cannot get a position in an office or counting-room, even to run
errands.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s so,” said Dick, soberly. “I never thought how
awful ignorant I was till now.”
</p>

<p>
“That can be remedied with perseverance,” said Frank. “A year
will do a great deal for you.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll go to work and see what I can do,” said Dick,
energetically.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap09" id="chap09"></a>CHAPTER IX.<br />
A SCENE IN A THIRD AVENUE CAR</h2>

<p>
The boys had turned into Third Avenue, a long street, which, commencing just
below the Cooper Institute, runs out to Harlem. A man came out of a side
street, uttering at intervals a monotonous cry which sounded like “glass
puddin’.”
</p>

<p>
“Glass pudding!” repeated Frank, looking in surprised wonder at
Dick. “What does he mean?”
</p>

<p>
“Perhaps you’d like some,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I never heard of it before.”
</p>

<p>
“Suppose you ask him what he charges for his puddin’.”
</p>

<p>
Frank looked more narrowly at the man, and soon concluded that he was a
glazier.
</p>

<p>
“Oh, I understand,” he said. “He means ‘glass put
in.’”
</p>

<p>
Frank’s mistake was not a singular one. The monotonous cry of these men
certainly sounds more like “glass puddin’,” than the words
they intend to utter.
</p>

<p>
“Now,” said Dick, “where shall we go?”
</p>

<p>
“I should like to see Central Park,” said Frank. “Is it far
off?”
</p>

<p>
“It is about a mile and a half from here,” said Dick. “This
is Twenty-ninth Street, and the Park begins at Fifty-ninth Street.”
</p>

<p>
It may be explained, for the benefit of readers who have never visited New
York, that about a mile from the City Hall the cross-streets begin to be
numbered in regular order. There is a continuous line of houses as far as One
Hundred and Thirtieth Street, where may be found the terminus of the Harlem
line of horse-cars. When the entire island is laid out and settled, probably
the numbers will reach two hundred or more. Central Park, which lies between
Fifty-ninth Street on the south, and One Hundred and Tenth Street on the north,
is true to its name, occupying about the centre of the island. The distance
between two parallel streets is called a block, and twenty blocks make a mile.
It will therefore be seen that Dick was exactly right, when he said they were a
mile and a half from Central Park.
</p>

<p>
“That is too far to walk,” said Frank.
</p>

<p>
“’Twon’t cost but six cents to ride,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“You mean in the horse-cars?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes.”
</p>

<p>
“All right then. We’ll jump aboard the next car.”
</p>

<p>
The Third Avenue and Harlem line of horse-cars is better patronized than any
other in New York, though not much can be said for the cars, which are usually
dirty and overcrowded. Still, when it is considered that only seven cents are
charged for the entire distance to Harlem, about seven miles from the City
Hall, the fare can hardly be complained of. But of course most of the profit is
made from the way-passengers who only ride a short distance.
</p>

<p>
A car was at that moment approaching, but it seemed pretty crowded.
</p>

<p>
“Shall we take that, or wait for another?” asked Frank.
</p>

<p>
“The next’ll most likely be as bad,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
The boys accordingly signalled to the conductor to stop, and got on the front
platform. They were obliged to stand up till the car reached Fortieth Street,
when so many of the passengers had got off that they obtained seats.
</p>

<p>
Frank sat down beside a middle-aged woman, or lady, as she probably called
herself, whose sharp visage and thin lips did not seem to promise a very
pleasant disposition. When the two gentlemen who sat beside her arose, she
spread her skirts in the endeavor to fill two seats. Disregarding this, the
boys sat down.
</p>

<p>
“There aint room for two,” she said, looking sourly at Frank.
</p>

<p>
“There were two here before.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, there ought not to have been. Some people like to crowd in where
they’re not wanted.”
</p>

<p>
“And some like to take up a double allowance of room,” thought
Frank; but he did not say so. He saw that the woman had a bad temper, and
thought it wisest to say nothing.
</p>

<p>
Frank had never ridden up the city as far as this, and it was with much
interest that he looked out of the car windows at the stores on either side.
Third Avenue is a broad street, but in the character of its houses and stores
it is quite inferior to Broadway, though better than some of the avenues
further east. Fifth Avenue, as most of my readers already know, is the finest
street in the city, being lined with splendid private residences, occupied by
the wealthier classes. Many of the cross streets also boast houses which may be
considered palaces, so elegant are they externally and internally. Frank caught
glimpses of some of these as he was carried towards the Park.
</p>

<p>
After the first conversation, already mentioned, with the lady at his side, he
supposed he should have nothing further to do with her. But in this he was
mistaken. While he was busy looking out of the car window, she plunged her hand
into her pocket in search of her purse, which she was unable to find. Instantly
she jumped to the conclusion that it had been stolen, and her suspicions
fastened upon Frank, with whom she was already provoked for “crowding
her,” as she termed it.
</p>

<p>
“Conductor!” she exclaimed in a sharp voice.
</p>

<p>
“What’s wanted, ma’am?” returned that functionary.
</p>

<p>
“I want you to come here right off.”
</p>

<p>
“What’s the matter?”
</p>

<p>
“My purse has been stolen. There was four dollars and eighty cents in it.
I know, because I counted it when I paid my fare.”
</p>

<p>
“Who stole it?”
</p>

<p>
“That boy,” she said pointing to Frank, who listened to the charge
in the most intense astonishment. “He crowded in here on purpose to rob
me, and I want you to search him right off.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s a lie!” exclaimed Dick, indignantly.
</p>

<p>
“Oh, you’re in league with him, I dare say,” said the woman
spitefully. “You’re as bad as he is, I’ll be bound.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re a nice female, you be!” said Dick, ironically.
</p>

<p>
“Don’t you dare to call me a female, sir,” said the lady,
furiously.
</p>

<p>
“Why, you aint a man in disguise, be you?” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“You are very much mistaken, madam,” said Frank, quietly.
“The conductor may search me, if you desire it.”
</p>

<p>
A charge of theft, made in a crowded car, of course made quite a sensation.
Cautious passengers instinctively put their hands on their pockets, to make
sure that they, too, had not been robbed. As for Frank, his face flushed, and
he felt very indignant that he should even be suspected of so mean a crime. He
had been carefully brought up, and been taught to regard stealing as low and
wicked.
</p>

<p>
Dick, on the contrary, thought it a capital joke that such a charge should have
been made against his companion. Though he had brought himself up, and known
plenty of boys and men, too, who would steal, he had never done so himself. He
thought it mean. But he could not be expected to regard it as Frank did. He had
been too familiar with it in others to look upon it with horror.
</p>

<p>
Meanwhile the passengers rather sided with the boys. Appearances go a great
ways, and Frank did not look like a thief.
</p>

<p>
“I think you must be mistaken, madam,” said a gentleman sitting
opposite. “The lad does not look as if he would steal.”
</p>

<p>
“You can’t tell by looks,” said the lady, sourly.
“They’re deceitful; villains are generally well dressed.”
</p>

<p>
“Be they?” said Dick. “You’d ought to see me with my
Washington coat on. You’d think I was the biggest villain ever you
saw.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ve no doubt you are,” said the lady, scowling in the
direction of our hero.
</p>

<p>
“Thank you, ma’am,” said Dick. “’Tisn’t
often I get such fine compliments.”
</p>

<p>
“None of your impudence,” said the lady, wrathfully. “I
believe you’re the worst of the two.”
</p>

<p>
Meanwhile the car had been stopped.
</p>

<p>
“How long are we going to stop here?” demanded a passenger,
impatiently. “I’m in a hurry, if none of the rest of you
are.”
</p>

<p>
“I want my pocket-book,” said the lady, defiantly.
</p>

<p>
“Well, ma’am, I haven’t got it, and I don’t see as
it’s doing you any good detaining us all here.”
</p>

<p>
“Conductor, will you call a policeman to search that young scamp?”
continued the aggrieved lady. “You don’t expect I’m going to
lose my money, and do nothing about it.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll turn my pockets inside out if you want me to,” said
Frank, proudly. “There’s no need of a policeman. The conductor, or
any one else, may search me.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, youngster,” said the conductor, “if the lady agrees,
I’ll search you.”
</p>

<p>
The lady signified her assent.
</p>

<p>
Frank accordingly turned his pockets inside out, but nothing was revealed
except his own porte-monnaie and a penknife.
</p>

<p>
“Well, ma’am, are you satisfied?” asked the conductor.
</p>

<p>
“No, I aint,” said she, decidedly.
</p>

<p>
“You don’t think he’s got it still?”
</p>

<p>
“No, but he’s passed it over to his confederate, that boy there
that’s so full of impudence.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s me,” said Dick, comically.
</p>

<p>
“He confesses it,” said the lady; “I want him
searched.”
</p>

<p>
“All right,” said Dick, “I’m ready for the operation,
only, as I’ve got valooable property about me, be careful not to drop any
of my Erie Bonds.”
</p>

<p>
The conductor’s hand forthwith dove into Dick’s pocket, and drew
out a rusty jack-knife, a battered cent, about fifty cents in change, and the
capacious pocket-book which he had received from the swindler who was anxious
to get back to his sick family in Boston.
</p>

<p>
“Is that yours, ma’am?” asked the conductor, holding up the
wallet which excited some amazement, by its size, among the other passengers.
</p>

<p>
“It seems to me you carry a large pocket-book for a young man of your
age,” said the conductor.
</p>

<p>
“That’s what I carry my cash and valooable papers in,” said
Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I suppose that isn’t yours, ma’am,” said the
conductor, turning to the lady.
</p>

<p>
“No,” said she, scornfully. “I wouldn’t carry round
such a great wallet as that. Most likely he’s stolen it from somebody
else.”
</p>

<p>
“What a prime detective you’d be!” said Dick.
“P’rhaps you know who I took it from.”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know but my money’s in it,” said the lady,
sharply. “Conductor, will you open that wallet, and see what there is in
it?”
</p>

<p>
“Don’t disturb the valooable papers,” said Dick, in a tone of
pretended anxiety.
</p>

<p>
The contents of the wallet excited some amusement among the passengers.
</p>

<p>
“There don’t seem to be much money here,” said the conductor,
taking out a roll of tissue paper cut out in the shape of bills, and rolled up.
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick. “Didn’t I tell you them were papers of
no valoo to anybody but the owner? If the lady’d like to borrow, I
won’t charge no interest.”
</p>

<p>
“Where is my money, then?” said the lady, in some discomfiture.
“I shouldn’t wonder if one of the young scamps had thrown it out of
the window.”
</p>

<p>
“You’d better search your pocket once more,” said the
gentleman opposite. “I don’t believe either of the boys is in
fault. They don’t look to me as if they would steal.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you, sir,” said Frank.
</p>

<p>
The lady followed out the suggestion, and, plunging her hand once more into her
pocket, drew out a small porte-monnaie. She hardly knew whether to be glad or
sorry at this discovery. It placed her in rather an awkward position after the
fuss she had made, and the detention to which she had subjected the passengers,
now, as it proved, for nothing.
</p>

<p>
“Is that the pocket-book you thought stolen?” asked the conductor.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said she, rather confusedly.
</p>

<p>
“Then you’ve been keeping me waiting all this time for
nothing,” he said, sharply. “I wish you’d take care to be
sure next time before you make such a disturbance for nothing. I’ve lost
five minutes, and shall not be on time.”
</p>

<p>
“I can’t help it,” was the cross reply; “I didn’t
know it was in my pocket.”
</p>

<p>
“It seems to me you owe an apology to the boys you accused of a theft
which they have not committed,” said the gentleman opposite.
</p>

<p>
“I shan’t apologize to anybody,” said the lady, whose temper
was not of the best; “least of all to such whipper-snappers as they
are.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you, ma’am,” said Dick, comically; “your
handsome apology is accepted. It aint of no consequence, only I didn’t
like to expose the contents of my valooable pocket-book, for fear it might
excite the envy of some of my poor neighbors.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re a character,” said the gentleman who had already
spoken, with a smile.
</p>

<p>
“A bad character!” muttered the lady.
</p>

<p>
But it was quite evident that the sympathies of those present were against the
lady, and on the side of the boys who had been falsely accused, while
Dick’s drollery had created considerable amusement.
</p>

<p>
The cars had now reached Fifty-ninth Street, the southern boundary of the Park,
and here our hero and his companion got off.
</p>

<p>
“You’d better look out for pickpockets, my lad,” said the
conductor, pleasantly. “That big wallet of yours might prove a great
temptation.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s so,” said Dick. “That’s the
misfortin’ of being rich. Astor and me don’t sleep much for fear of
burglars breakin’ in and robbin’ us of our valooable treasures.
Sometimes I think I’ll give all my money to an Orphan Asylum, and take it
out in board. I guess I’d make money by the operation.”
</p>

<p>
While Dick was speaking, the car rolled away, and the boys turned up
Fifty-ninth Street, for two long blocks yet separated them from the Park.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap10" id="chap10"></a>CHAPTER X.<br />
INTRODUCES A VICTIM OF MISPLACED CONFIDENCE</h2>

<p>
“What a queer chap you are, Dick!” said Frank, laughing. “You
always seem to be in good spirits.”
</p>

<p>
“No, I aint always. Sometimes I have the blues.”
</p>

<p>
“When?”
</p>

<p>
“Well, once last winter it was awful cold, and there was big holes in my
shoes, and my gloves and all my warm clothes was at the tailor’s. I felt
as if life was sort of tough, and I’d like it if some rich man would
adopt me, and give me plenty to eat and drink and wear, without my havin’
to look so sharp after it. Then agin’ when I’ve seen boys with good
homes, and fathers, and mothers, I’ve thought I’d like to have
somebody to care for me.”
</p>

<p>
Dick’s tone changed as he said this, from his usual levity, and there was
a touch of sadness in it. Frank, blessed with a good home and indulgent
parents, could not help pitying the friendless boy who had found life such
up-hill work.
</p>

<p>
“Don’t say you have no one to care for you, Dick,” he said,
lightly laying his hand on Dick’s shoulder. “I will care for
you.”
</p>

<p>
“Will you?”
</p>

<p>
“If you will let me.”
</p>

<p>
“I wish you would,” said Dick, earnestly. “I’d like to
feel that I have one friend who cares for me.”
</p>

<p>
Central Park was now before them, but it was far from presenting the appearance
which it now exhibits. It had not been long since work had been commenced upon
it, and it was still very rough and unfinished. A rough tract of land, two
miles and a half from north to south, and a half a mile broad, very rocky in
parts, was the material from which the Park Commissioners have made the present
beautiful enclosure. There were no houses of good appearance near it, buildings
being limited mainly to rude temporary huts used by the workmen who were
employed in improving it. The time will undoubtedly come when the Park will be
surrounded by elegant residences, and compare favorably in this respect with
the most attractive parts of any city in the world. But at the time when Frank
and Dick visited it, not much could be said in favor either of the Park or its
neighborhood.
</p>

<p>
“If this is Central Park,” said Frank, who naturally felt
disappointed, “I don’t think much of it. My father’s got a
large pasture that is much nicer.”
</p>

<p>
“It’ll look better some time,” said Dick. “There aint
much to see now but rocks. We will take a walk over it if you want to.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Frank, “I’ve seen as much of it as I want
to. Besides, I feel tired.”
</p>

<p>
“Then we’ll go back. We can take the Sixth Avenue cars. They will
bring us out at Vesey Street just beside the Astor House.”
</p>

<p>
“All right,” said Frank. “That will be the best course. I
hope,” he added, laughing, “our agreeable lady friend won’t
be there. I don’t care about being accused of <i>stealing</i>
again.”
</p>

<p>
“She was a tough one,” said Dick. “Wouldn’t she make a
nice wife for a man that likes to live in hot water, and didn’t mind
bein’ scalded two or three times a day?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, I think she’d just suit him. Is that the right car,
Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, jump in, and I’ll follow.”
</p>

<p>
The Sixth Avenue is lined with stores, many of them of very good appearance,
and would make a very respectable principal street for a good-sized city. But
it is only one of several long business streets which run up the island, and
illustrate the extent and importance of the city to which they belong.
</p>

<p>
No incidents worth mentioning took place during their ride down town. In about
three-quarters of an hour the boys got out of the car beside the Astor House.
</p>

<p>
“Are you goin’ in now, Frank?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“That depends upon whether you have anything else to show me.”
</p>

<p>
“Wouldn’t you like to go to Wall Street?”
</p>

<p>
“That’s the street where there are so many bankers and
brokers,—isn’t it?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, I s’pose you aint afraid of bulls and bears,—are
you?”
</p>

<p>
“Bulls and bears?” repeated Frank, puzzled.
</p>

<p>
“Yes.”
</p>

<p>
“What are they?”
</p>

<p>
“The bulls is what tries to make the stocks go up, and the bears is what
try to growl ’em down.”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, I see. Yes, I’d like to go.”
</p>

<p>
Accordingly they walked down on the west side of Broadway as far as Trinity
Church, and then, crossing, entered a street not very wide or very long, but of
very great importance. The reader would be astonished if he could know the
amount of money involved in the transactions which take place in a single day
in this street. It would be found that although Broadway is much greater in
length, and lined with stores, it stands second to Wall Street in this respect.
</p>

<p>
“What is that large marble building?” asked Frank, pointing to a
massive structure on the corner of Wall and Nassau Streets. It was in the form
of a parallelogram, two hundred feet long by ninety wide, and about eighty feet
in height, the ascent to the entrance being by eighteen granite steps.
</p>

<p>
“That’s the Custom House,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“It looks like pictures I’ve seen of the Parthenon at
Athens,” said Frank, meditatively.
</p>

<p>
“Where’s Athens?” asked Dick. “It aint in York
State,—is it?”
</p>

<p>
“Not the Athens I mean, at any rate. It is in Greece, and was a famous
city two thousand years ago.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s longer than I can remember,” said Dick. “I
can’t remember distinctly more’n about a thousand years.”
</p>

<p>
“What a chap you are, Dick! Do you know if we can go in?”
</p>

<p>
The boys ascertained, after a little inquiry, that they would be allowed to do
so. They accordingly entered the Custom House and made their way up to the
roof, from which they had a fine view of the harbor, the wharves crowded with
shipping, and the neighboring shores of Long Island and New Jersey. Towards the
north they looked down for many miles upon continuous lines of streets, and
thousands of roofs, with here and there a church-spire rising above its
neighbors. Dick had never before been up there, and he, as well as Frank, was
interested in the grand view spread before them.
</p>

<p>
At length they descended, and were going down the granite steps on the outside
of the building, when they were addressed by a young man, whose appearance is
worth describing.
</p>

<p>
He was tall, and rather loosely put together, with small eyes and rather a
prominent nose. His clothing had evidently not been furnished by a city tailor.
He wore a blue coat with brass buttons, and pantaloons of rather scanty
dimensions, which were several inches too short to cover his lower limbs. He
held in his hand a piece of paper, and his countenance wore a look of mingled
bewilderment and anxiety.
</p>

<p>
“Be they a-payin’ out money inside there?” he asked,
indicating the interior by a motion of his hand.
</p>

<p>
“I guess so,” said Dick. “Are you a-goin’ in for
some?”
</p>

<p>
“Wal, yes. I’ve got an order here for sixty dollars,—made a
kind of speculation this morning.”
</p>

<p>
“How was it?” asked Frank.
</p>

<p>
“Wal, you see I brought down some money to put in the bank, fifty dollars
it was, and I hadn’t justly made up my mind what bank to put it into,
when a chap came up in a terrible hurry, and said it was very unfortunate, but
the bank wasn’t open, and he must have some money right off. He was
obliged to go out of the city by the next train. I asked him how much he
wanted. He said fifty dollars. I told him I’d got that, and he offered me
a check on the bank for sixty, and I let him have it. I thought that was a
pretty easy way to earn ten dollars, so I counted out the money and he went
off. He told me I’d hear a bell ring when they began to pay out money.
But I’ve waited most two hours, and I haint heard it yet. I’d ought
to be goin’, for I told dad I’d be home to-night. Do you think I
can get the money now?”
</p>

<p>
“Will you show me the check?” asked Frank, who had listened
attentively to the countryman’s story, and suspected that he had been
made the victim of a swindler. It was made out upon the “Washington
Bank,” in the sum of sixty dollars, and was signed “Ephraim
Smith.”
</p>

<p>
“Washington Bank!” repeated Frank. “Dick, is there such a
bank in the city?”
</p>

<p>
“Not as I knows on,” said Dick. “Leastways I don’t own
any shares in it.”
</p>

<p>
“Aint this the Washington Bank?” asked the countryman, pointing to
the building on the steps of which the three were now standing.
</p>

<p>
“No, it’s the Custom House.”
</p>

<p>
“And won’t they give me any money for this?” asked the young
man, the perspiration standing on his brow.
</p>

<p>
“I am afraid the man who gave it to you was a swindler,” said
Frank, gently.
</p>

<p>
“And won’t I ever see my fifty dollars again?” asked the
youth in agony.
</p>

<p>
“I am afraid not.”
</p>

<p>
“What’ll dad say?” ejaculated the miserable youth. “It
makes me feel sick to think of it. I wish I had the feller here. I’d
shake him out of his boots.”
</p>

<p>
“What did he look like? I’ll call a policeman and you shall
describe him. Perhaps in that way you can get track of your money.”
</p>

<p>
Dick called a policeman, who listened to the description, and recognized the
operator as an experienced swindler. He assured the countryman that there was
very little chance of his ever seeing his money again. The boys left the
miserable youth loudly bewailing his bad luck, and proceeded on their way down
the street.
</p>

<p>
“He’s a baby,” said Dick, contemptuously. “He’d
ought to know how to take care of himself and his money. A feller has to look
sharp in this city, or he’ll lose his eye-teeth before he knows
it.”
</p>

<p>
“I suppose you never got swindled out of fifty dollars, Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“No, I don’t carry no such small bills. I wish I did,” he
added.
</p>

<p>
“So do I, Dick. What’s that building there at the end of the
street?”
</p>

<p>
“That’s the Wall-Street Ferry to Brooklyn.”
</p>

<p>
“How long does it take to go across?”
</p>

<p>
“Not more’n five minutes.”
</p>

<p>
“Suppose we just ride over and back.”
</p>

<p>
“All right!” said Dick. “It’s rather expensive; but if
you don’t mind, I don’t.”
</p>

<p>
“Why, how much does it cost?”
</p>

<p>
“Two cents apiece.”
</p>

<p>
“I guess I can stand that. Let us go.”
</p>

<p>
They passed the gate, paying the fare to a man who stood at the entrance, and
were soon on the ferry-boat, bound for Brooklyn.
</p>

<p>
They had scarcely entered the boat, when Dick, grasping Frank by the arm,
pointed to a man just outside of the gentlemen’s cabin.
</p>

<p>
“Do you see that man, Frank?” he inquired.
</p>

<p>
“Yes, what of him?”
</p>

<p>
“He’s the man that cheated the country chap out of his fifty
dollars.”
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap11" id="chap11"></a>CHAPTER XI.<br />
DICK AS A DETECTIVE</h2>

<p>
Dick’s ready identification of the rogue who had cheated the countryman,
surprised Frank.
</p>

<p>
“What makes you think it is he?” he asked.
</p>

<p>
“Because I’ve seen him before, and I know he’s up to them
kind of tricks. When I heard how he looked, I was sure I knowed him.”
</p>

<p>
“Our recognizing him won’t be of much use,” said Frank.
“It won’t give back the countryman his money.”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know,” said Dick, thoughtfully. “May be I can
get it.”
</p>

<p>
“How?” asked Frank, incredulously.
</p>

<p>
“Wait a minute, and you’ll see.”
</p>

<p>
Dick left his companion, and went up to the man whom he suspected.
</p>

<p>
“Ephraim Smith,” said Dick, in a low voice.
</p>

<p>
The man turned suddenly, and looked at Dick uneasily.
</p>

<p>
“What did you say?” he asked.
</p>

<p>
“I believe your name is Ephraim Smith,” continued Dick.
</p>

<p>
“You’re mistaken,” said the man, and was about to move off.
</p>

<p>
“Stop a minute,” said Dick. “Don’t you keep your money
in the Washington Bank?”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know any such bank. I’m in a hurry, young man, and I
can’t stop to answer any foolish questions.”
</p>

<p>
The boat had by this time reached the Brooklyn pier, and Mr. Ephraim Smith
seemed in a hurry to land.
</p>

<p>
“Look here,” said Dick, significantly; “you’d better
not go on shore unless you want to jump into the arms of a policeman.”
</p>

<p>
“What do you mean?” asked the man, startled.
</p>

<p>
“That little affair of yours is known to the police,” said Dick;
“about how you got fifty dollars out of a greenhorn on a false check, and
it mayn’t be safe for you to go ashore.”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” said the
swindler with affected boldness, though Dick could see that he was ill at ease.
</p>

<p>
“Yes you do,” said Dick. “There isn’t but one thing to
do. Just give me back that money, and I’ll see that you’re not
touched. If you don’t, I’ll give you up to the first
p’liceman we meet.”
</p>

<p>
Dick looked so determined, and spoke so confidently, that the other, overcome
by his fears, no longer hesitated, but passed a roll of bills to Dick and
hastily left the boat.
</p>

<p>
All this Frank witnessed with great amazement, not understanding what influence
Dick could have obtained over the swindler sufficient to compel restitution.
</p>

<p>
“How did you do it?” he asked eagerly.
</p>

<p>
“I told him I’d exert my influence with the president to have him
tried by <i>habeas corpus</i>,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“And of course that frightened him. But tell me, without joking, how you
managed.”
</p>

<p>
Dick gave a truthful account of what occurred, and then said, “Now
we’ll go back and carry the money.”
</p>

<p>
“Suppose we don’t find the poor countryman?”
</p>

<p>
“Then the p’lice will take care of it.”
</p>

<p>
They remained on board the boat, and in five minutes were again in New York.
Going up Wall Street, they met the countryman a little distance from the Custom
House. His face was marked with the traces of deep anguish; but in his case
even grief could not subdue the cravings of appetite. He had purchased some
cakes of one of the old women who spread out for the benefit of passers-by an
array of apples and seed-cakes, and was munching them with melancholy
satisfaction.
</p>

<p>
“Hilloa!” said Dick. “Have you found your money?”
</p>

<p>
“No,” ejaculated the young man, with a convulsive gasp. “I
shan’t ever see it again. The mean skunk’s cheated me out of it.
Consarn his picter! It took me most six months to save it up. I was
workin’ for Deacon Pinkham in our place. Oh, I wish I’d never come
to New York! The deacon, he told me he’d keep it for me; but I wanted to
put it in the bank, and now it’s all gone, boo hoo!”
</p>

<p>
And the miserable youth, having despatched his cakes, was so overcome by the
thought of his loss that he burst into tears.
</p>

<p>
“I say,” said Dick, “dry up, and see what I’ve got
here.”
</p>

<p>
The youth no sooner saw the roll of bills, and comprehended that it was indeed
his lost treasure, than from the depths of anguish he was exalted to the most
ecstatic joy. He seized Dick’s hand, and shook it with so much energy
that our hero began to feel rather alarmed for its safety.
</p>

<p>
“’Pears to me you take my arm for a pump-handle,” said he.
“Couldn’t you show your gratitood some other way? It’s just
possible I may want to use my arm ag’in some time.”
</p>

<p>
The young man desisted, but invited Dick most cordially to come up and stop a
week with him at his country home, assuring him that he wouldn’t charge
him anything for board.
</p>

<p>
“All right!” said Dick. “If you don’t mind I’ll
bring my wife along, too. She’s delicate, and the country air might do
her good.”
</p>

<p>
Jonathan stared at him in amazement, uncertain whether to credit the fact of
his marriage. Dick walked on with Frank, leaving him in an apparent state of
stupefaction, and it is possible that he has not yet settled the affair to his
satisfaction.
</p>

<p>
“Now,” said Frank, “I think I’ll go back to the Astor
House. Uncle has probably got through his business and returned.”
</p>

<p>
“All right,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
The two boys walked up to Broadway, just where the tall steeple of Trinity
faces the street of bankers and brokers, and walked leisurely to the hotel.
When they arrived at the Astor House, Dick said, “Good-by, Frank.”
</p>

<p>
“Not yet,” said Frank; “I want you to come in with me.”
</p>

<p>
Dick followed his young patron up the steps. Frank went to the reading-room,
where, as he had thought probable, he found his uncle already arrived, and
reading a copy of “The Evening Post,” which he had just purchased
outside.
</p>

<p>
“Well, boys,” he said, looking up, “have you had a pleasant
jaunt?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir,” said Frank. “Dick’s a capital guide.”
</p>

<p>
“So this is Dick,” said Mr. Whitney, surveying him with a smile.
“Upon my word, I should hardly have known him. I must congratulate him on
his improved appearance.”
</p>

<p>
“Frank’s been very kind to me,” said Dick, who, rough
street-boy as he was, had a heart easily touched by kindness, of which he had
never experienced much. “He’s a tip-top fellow.”
</p>

<p>
“I believe he is a good boy,” said Mr. Whitney. “I hope, my
lad, you will prosper and rise in the world. You know in this free country
poverty in early life is no bar to a man’s advancement. I haven’t
risen very high myself,” he added, with a smile, “but have met with
moderate success in life; yet there was a time when I was as poor as
you.”
</p>

<p>
“Were you, sir,” asked Dick, eagerly.
</p>

<p>
“Yes, my boy, I have known the time I have been obliged to go without my
dinner because I didn’t have enough money to pay for it.”
</p>

<p>
“How did you get up in the world,” asked Dick, anxiously.
</p>

<p>
“I entered a printing-office as an apprentice, and worked for some years.
Then my eyes gave out and I was obliged to give that up. Not knowing what else
to do, I went into the country, and worked on a farm. After a while I was lucky
enough to invent a machine, which has brought me in a great deal of money. But
there was one thing I got while I was in the printing-office which I value more
than money.”
</p>

<p>
“What was that, sir?”
</p>

<p>
“A taste for reading and study. During my leisure hours I improved myself
by study, and acquired a large part of the knowledge which I now possess.
Indeed, it was one of my books that first put me on the track of the invention,
which I afterwards made. So you see, my lad, that my studious habits paid me in
money, as well as in another way.”
</p>

<p>
“I’m awful ignorant,” said Dick, soberly.
</p>

<p>
“But you are young, and, I judge, a smart boy. If you try to learn, you
can, and if you ever expect to do anything in the world, you must know
something of books.”
</p>

<p>
“I will,” said Dick, resolutely. “I aint always goin’
to black boots for a livin’.”
</p>

<p>
“All labor is respectable, my lad, and you have no cause to be ashamed of
any honest business; yet when you can get something to do that promises better
for your future prospects, I advise you to do so. Till then earn your living in
the way you are accustomed to, avoid extravagance, and save up a little money
if you can.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you for your advice,” said our hero. “There aint many
that takes an interest in Ragged Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“So that’s your name,” said Mr. Whitney. “If I judge
you rightly, it won’t be long before you change it. Save your money, my
lad, buy books, and determine to be somebody, and you may yet fill an honorable
position.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll try,” said Dick. “Good-night, sir.”
</p>

<p>
“Wait a minute, Dick,” said Frank. “Your blacking-box and old
clothes are upstairs. You may want them.”
</p>

<p>
“In course,” said Dick. “I couldn’t get along without
my best clothes, and my stock in trade.”
</p>

<p>
“You may go up to the room with him, Frank,” said Mr. Whitney.
“The clerk will give you the key. I want to see you, Dick, before you
go.”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Where are you going to sleep to-night, Dick?” asked Frank, as they
went upstairs together.
</p>

<p>
“P’r’aps at the Fifth Avenue Hotel—on the
outside,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Haven’t you any place to sleep, then?”
</p>

<p>
“I slept in a box, last night.”
</p>

<p>
“In a box?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, on Spruce Street.”
</p>

<p>
“Poor fellow!” said Frank, compassionately.
</p>

<p>
“Oh, ’twas a bully bed—full of straw! I slept like a
top.”
</p>

<p>
“Don’t you earn enough to pay for a room, Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick; “only I spend my money foolish, goin’
to the Old Bowery, and Tony Pastor’s, and sometimes gamblin’ in
Baxter Street.”
</p>

<p>
“You won’t gamble any more,—will you, Dick?” said
Frank, laying his hand persuasively on his companion’s shoulder.
</p>

<p>
“No, I won’t,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“You’ll promise?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, and I’ll keep it. You’re a good feller. I wish you was
goin’ to be in New York.”
</p>

<p>
“I am going to a boarding-school in Connecticut. The name of the town is
Barnton. Will you write to me, Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“My writing would look like hens’ tracks,” said our hero.
</p>

<p>
“Never mind. I want you to write. When you write you can tell me how to
direct, and I will send you a letter.”
</p>

<p>
“I wish you would,” said Dick. “I wish I was more like
you.”
</p>

<p>
“I hope you will make a much better boy, Dick. Now we’ll go in to
my uncle. He wishes to see you before you go.”
</p>

<p>
They went into the reading-room. Dick had wrapped up his blacking-brush in a
newspaper with which Frank had supplied him, feeling that a guest of the Astor
House should hardly be seen coming out of the hotel displaying such a
professional sign.
</p>

<p>
“Uncle, Dick’s ready to go,” said Frank.
</p>

<p>
“Good-by, my lad,” said Mr. Whitney. “I hope to hear good
accounts of you sometime. Don’t forget what I have told you. Remember
that your future position depends mainly upon yourself, and that it will be
high or low as you choose to make it.”
</p>

<p>
He held out his hand, in which was a five-dollar bill. Dick shrunk back.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t like to take it,” he said. “I haven’t
earned it.”
</p>

<p>
“Perhaps not,” said Mr. Whitney; “but I give it to you
because I remember my own friendless youth. I hope it may be of service to you.
Sometime when you are a prosperous man, you can repay it in the form of aid to
some poor boy, who is struggling upward as you are now.”
</p>

<p>
“I will, sir,” said Dick, manfully.
</p>

<p>
He no longer refused the money, but took it gratefully, and, bidding Frank and
his uncle good-by, went out into the street. A feeling of loneliness came over
him as he left the presence of Frank, for whom he had formed a strong
attachment in the few hours he had known him.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap12" id="chap12"></a>CHAPTER XII.<br />
DICK HIRES A ROOM ON MOTT STREET</h2>

<p>
Going out into the fresh air Dick felt the pangs of hunger. He accordingly went
to a restaurant and got a substantial supper. Perhaps it was the new clothes he
wore, which made him feel a little more aristocratic. At all events, instead of
patronizing the cheap restaurant where he usually procured his meals, he went
into the refectory attached to Lovejoy’s Hotel, where the prices were
higher and the company more select. In his ordinary dress, Dick would have been
excluded, but now he had the appearance of a very respectable, gentlemanly boy,
whose presence would not discredit any establishment. His orders were therefore
received with attention by the waiter and in due time a good supper was placed
before him.
</p>

<p>
“I wish I could come here every day,” thought Dick. “It seems
kind o’ nice and ’spectable, side of the other place. There’s
a gent at that other table that I’ve shined boots for more’n once.
He don’t know me in my new clothes. Guess he don’t know his
boot-black patronizes the same establishment.”
</p>

<p>
His supper over, Dick went up to the desk, and, presenting his check, tendered
in payment his five-dollar bill, as if it were one of a large number which he
possessed. Receiving back his change he went out into the street.
</p>

<p>
Two questions now arose: How should he spend the evening, and where should he
pass the night? Yesterday, with such a sum of money in his possession, he would
have answered both questions readily. For the evening, he would have passed it
at the Old Bowery, and gone to sleep in any out-of-the-way place that offered.
But he had turned over a new leaf, or resolved to do so. He meant to save his
money for some useful purpose,—to aid his advancement in the world. So he
could not afford the theatre. Besides, with his new clothes, he was unwilling
to pass the night out of doors.
</p>

<p>
“I should spile ’em,” he thought, “and that
wouldn’t pay.”
</p>

<p>
So he determined to hunt up a room which he could occupy regularly, and
consider as his own, where he could sleep nights, instead of depending on boxes
and old wagons for a chance shelter. This would be the first step towards
respectability, and Dick determined to take it.
</p>

<p>
He accordingly passed through the City Hall Park, and walked leisurely up
Centre Street.
</p>

<p>
He decided that it would hardly be advisable for him to seek lodgings in Fifth
Avenue, although his present cash capital consisted of nearly five dollars in
money, besides the valuable papers contained in his wallet. Besides, he had
reason to doubt whether any in his line of business lived on that aristocratic
street. He took his way to Mott Street, which is considerably less pretentious,
and halted in front of a shabby brick lodging-house kept by a Mrs. Mooney, with
whose son Tom, Dick was acquainted.
</p>

<p>
Dick rang the bell, which sent back a shrill metallic response.
</p>

<p>
The door was opened by a slatternly servant, who looked at him inquiringly, and
not without curiosity. It must be remembered that Dick was well dressed, and
that nothing in his appearance bespoke his occupation. Being naturally a
good-looking boy, he might readily be mistaken for a gentleman’s son.
</p>

<p>
“Well, Queen Victoria,” said Dick, “is your missus at
home?”
</p>

<p>
“My name’s Bridget,” said the girl.
</p>

<p>
“Oh, indeed!” said Dick. “You looked so much like the
queen’s picter what she gave me last Christmas in exchange for mine, that
I couldn’t help calling you by her name.”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, go along wid ye!” said Bridget. “It’s makin’
fun ye are.”
</p>

<p>
“If you don’t believe me,” said Dick, gravely, “all
you’ve got to do is to ask my partic’lar friend, the Duke of
Newcastle.”
</p>

<p>
“Bridget!” called a shrill voice from the basement.
</p>

<p>
“The missus is calling me,” said Bridget, hurriedly.
“I’ll tell her ye want her.”
</p>

<p>
“All right!” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
The servant descended into the lower regions, and in a short time a stout,
red-faced woman appeared on the scene.
</p>

<p>
“Well, sir, what’s your wish?” she asked.
</p>

<p>
“Have you got a room to let?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Is it for yourself you ask?” questioned the woman, in some
surprise.
</p>

<p>
Dick answered in the affirmative.
</p>

<p>
“I haven’t got any very good rooms vacant. There’s a small
room in the third story.”
</p>

<p>
“I’d like to see it,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know as it would be good enough for you,” said the
woman, with a glance at Dick’s clothes.
</p>

<p>
“I aint very partic’lar about accommodations,” said our hero.
“I guess I’ll look at it.”
</p>

<p>
Dick followed the landlady up two narrow stair-cases, uncarpeted and dirty, to
the third landing, where he was ushered into a room about ten feet square. It
could not be considered a very desirable apartment. It had once been covered
with an oilcloth carpet, but this was now very ragged, and looked worse than
none. There was a single bed in the corner, covered with an indiscriminate heap
of bed-clothing, rumpled and not over-clean. There was a bureau, with the
veneering scratched and in some parts stripped off, and a small glass, eight
inches by ten, cracked across the middle; also two chairs in rather a
disjointed condition. Judging from Dick’s appearance, Mrs. Mooney thought
he would turn from it in disdain.
</p>

<p>
But it must be remembered that Dick’s past experience had not been of a
character to make him fastidious. In comparison with a box, or an empty wagon,
even this little room seemed comfortable. He decided to hire it if the rent
proved reasonable.
</p>

<p>
“Well, what’s the tax?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I ought to have a dollar a week,” said Mrs. Mooney, hesitatingly.
</p>

<p>
“Say seventy-five cents, and I’ll take it,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Every week in advance?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, as times is hard, and I can’t afford to keep it empty, you
may have it. When will you come?”
</p>

<p>
“To-night,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“It aint lookin’ very neat. I don’t know as I can fix it up
to-night.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, I’ll sleep here to-night, and you can fix it up
to-morrow.”
</p>

<p>
“I hope you’ll excuse the looks. I’m a lone woman, and my
help is so shiftless, I have to look after everything myself; so I can’t
keep things as straight as I want to.”
</p>

<p>
“All right!” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Can you pay me the first week in advance?” asked the landlady,
cautiously.
</p>

<p>
Dick responded by drawing seventy-five cents from his pocket, and placing it in
her hand.
</p>

<p>
“What’s your business, sir, if I may inquire?” said Mrs.
Mooney.
</p>

<p>
“Oh, I’m professional!” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Indeed!” said the landlady, who did not feel much enlightened by
this answer.
</p>

<p>
“How’s Tom?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Do you know my Tom?” said Mrs. Mooney in surprise.
“He’s gone to sea,—to Californy. He went last week.”
</p>

<p>
“Did he?” said Dick. “Yes, I knew him.”
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Mooney looked upon her new lodger with increased favor, on finding that he
was acquainted with her son, who, by the way, was one of the worst young scamps
in Mott Street, which is saying considerable.
</p>

<p>
“I’ll bring over my baggage from the Astor House this
evening,” said Dick in a tone of importance.
</p>

<p>
“From the Astor House!” repeated Mrs. Mooney, in fresh amazement.
</p>

<p>
“Yes, I’ve been stoppin’ there a short time with some
friends,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Mooney might be excused for a little amazement at finding that a guest
from the Astor House was about to become one of her lodgers—such
transfers not being common.
</p>

<p>
“Did you say you was purfessional?” she asked.
</p>

<p>
“Yes, ma’am,” said Dick, politely.
</p>

<p>
“You aint a—a—” Mrs. Mooney paused, uncertain what
conjecture to hazard.
</p>

<p>
“Oh, no, nothing of the sort,” said Dick, promptly. “How
could you think so, Mrs. Mooney?”
</p>

<p>
“No offence, sir,” said the landlady, more perplexed than ever.
</p>

<p>
“Certainly not,” said our hero. “But you must excuse me now,
Mrs. Mooney, as I have business of great importance to attend to.”
</p>

<p>
“You’ll come round this evening?”
</p>

<p>
Dick answered in the affirmative, and turned away.
</p>

<p>
“I wonder what he is!” thought the landlady, following him with her
eyes as he crossed the street. “He’s got good clothes on, but he
don’t seem very particular about his room. Well; I’ve got all my
rooms full now. That’s one comfort.”
</p>

<p>
Dick felt more comfortable now that he had taken the decisive step of hiring a
lodging, and paying a week’s rent in advance. For seven nights he was
sure of a shelter and a bed to sleep in. The thought was a pleasant one to our
young vagrant, who hitherto had seldom known when he rose in the morning where
he should find a resting-place at night.
</p>

<p>
“I must bring my traps round,” said Dick to himself. “I guess
I’ll go to bed early to-night. It’ll feel kinder good to sleep in a
reg’lar bed. Boxes is rather hard to the back, and aint comfortable in
case of rain. I wonder what Johnny Nolan would say if he knew I’d got a
room of my own.”
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap13" id="chap13"></a>CHAPTER XIII.<br />
MICKY MAGUIRE</h2>

<p>
About nine o’clock Dick sought his new lodgings. In his hands he carried
his professional wardrobe, namely, the clothes which he had worn at the
commencement of the day, and the implements of his business. These he stowed
away in the bureau drawers, and by the light of a flickering candle took off
his clothes and went to bed. Dick had a good digestion and a reasonably good
conscience; consequently he was a good sleeper. Perhaps, too, the soft feather
bed conduced to slumber. At any rate his eyes were soon closed, and he did not
awake until half-past six the next morning.
</p>

<p>
He lifted himself on his elbow, and stared around him in transient
bewilderment.
</p>

<p>
“Blest if I hadn’t forgot where I was,” he said to himself.
“So this is my room, is it? Well, it seems kind of ’spectable to
have a room and a bed to sleep in. I’d orter be able to afford
seventy-five cents a week. I’ve throwed away more money than that in one
evenin’. There aint no reason why I shouldn’t live
’spectable. I wish I knowed as much as Frank. He’s a tip-top
feller. Nobody ever cared enough for me before to give me good advice. It was
kicks, and cuffs, and swearin’ at me all the time. I’d like to show
him I can do something.”
</p>

<p>
While Dick was indulging in these reflections, he had risen from bed, and,
finding an accession to the furniture of his room, in the shape of an ancient
wash-stand bearing a cracked bowl and broken pitcher, indulged himself in the
rather unusual ceremony of a good wash. On the whole, Dick preferred to be
clean, but it was not always easy to gratify his desire. Lodging in the street
as he had been accustomed to do, he had had no opportunity to perform his
toilet in the customary manner. Even now he found himself unable to arrange his
dishevelled locks, having neither comb nor brush. He determined to purchase a
comb, at least, as soon as possible, and a brush too, if he could get one
cheap. Meanwhile he combed his hair with his fingers as well as he could,
though the result was not quite so satisfactory as it might have been.
</p>

<p>
A question now came up for consideration. For the first time in his life Dick
possessed two suits of clothes. Should he put on the clothes Frank had given
him, or resume his old rags?
</p>

<p>
Now, twenty-four hours before, at the time Dick was introduced to the
reader’s notice, no one could have been less fastidious as to his
clothing than he. Indeed, he had rather a contempt for good clothes, or at
least he thought so. But now, as he surveyed the ragged and dirty coat and the
patched pants, Dick felt ashamed of them. He was unwilling to appear in the
streets with them. Yet, if he went to work in his new suit, he was in danger of
spoiling it, and he might not have it in his power to purchase a new one.
Economy dictated a return to the old garments. Dick tried them on, and surveyed
himself in the cracked glass; but the reflection did not please him.
</p>

<p>
“They don’t look ’spectable,” he decided; and,
forthwith taking them off again, he put on the new suit of the day before.
</p>

<p>
“I must try to earn a little more,” he thought, “to pay for
my room, and to buy some new clo’es when these is wore out.”
</p>

<p>
He opened the door of his chamber, and went downstairs and into the street,
carrying his blacking-box with him.
</p>

<p>
It was Dick’s custom to commence his business before breakfast; generally
it must be owned, because he began the day penniless, and must earn his meal
before he ate it. To-day it was different. He had four dollars left in his
pocket-book; but this he had previously determined not to touch. In fact he had
formed the ambitious design of starting an account at a savings’ bank, in
order to have something to fall back upon in case of sickness or any other
emergency, or at any rate as a reserve fund to expend in clothing or other
necessary articles when he required them. Hitherto he had been content to live
on from day to day without a penny ahead; but the new vision of respectability
which now floated before Dick’s mind, owing to his recent acquaintance
with Frank, was beginning to exercise a powerful effect upon him.
</p>

<p>
In Dick’s profession as in others there are lucky days, when everything
seems to flow prosperously. As if to encourage him in his new-born resolution,
our hero obtained no less than six jobs in the course of an hour and a half.
This gave him sixty cents, quite abundant to purchase his breakfast, and a comb
besides. His exertions made him hungry, and, entering a small eating-house he
ordered a cup of coffee and a beefsteak. To this he added a couple of rolls.
This was quite a luxurious breakfast for Dick, and more expensive than he was
accustomed to indulge himself with. To gratify the curiosity of my young
readers, I will put down the items with their cost,—
</p>

<p class="letter">
Coffee, . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5 cts.<br />
Beefsteak, . . . . . . . . . . .  15<br />
A couple of rolls,  . . . . . . .  5<br />
—25 cts.
</p>

<p>
It will thus be seen that our hero had expended nearly one-half of his
morning’s earnings. Some days he had been compelled to breakfast on five
cents, and then he was forced to content himself with a couple of apples, or
cakes. But a good breakfast is a good preparation for a busy day, and Dick
sallied forth from the restaurant lively and alert, ready to do a good stroke
of business.
</p>

<p>
Dick’s change of costume was liable to lead to one result of which he had
not thought. His brother boot-blacks might think he had grown aristocratic, and
was putting on airs,—that, in fact, he was getting above his business,
and desirous to outshine his associates. Dick had not dreamed of this, because
in fact, in spite of his new-born ambition, he entertained no such feeling.
There was nothing of what boys call “big-feeling” about him. He was
a borough democrat, using the word not politically, but in its proper sense,
and was disposed to fraternize with all whom he styled “good
fellows,” without regard to their position. It may seem a little
unnecessary to some of my readers to make this explanation; but they must
remember that pride and “big-feeling” are confined to no age or
class, but may be found in boys as well as men, and in boot-blacks as well as
those of a higher rank.
</p>

<p>
The morning being a busy time with the boot-blacks, Dick’s changed
appearance had not as yet attracted much attention. But when business slackened
a little, our hero was destined to be reminded of it.
</p>

<p>
Among the down-town boot-blacks was one hailing from the Five Points,—a
stout, red-haired, freckled-faced boy of fourteen, bearing the name of Micky
Maguire. This boy, by his boldness and recklessness, as well as by his personal
strength, which was considerable, had acquired an ascendancy among his fellow
professionals, and had a gang of subservient followers, whom he led on to acts
of ruffianism, not unfrequently terminating in a month or two at
Blackwell’s Island. Micky himself had served two terms there; but the
confinement appeared to have had very little effect in amending his conduct,
except, perhaps, in making him a little more cautious about an encounter with
the “copps,” as the members of the city police are, for some
unknown reason, styled among the Five-Point boys.
</p>

<p>
Now Micky was proud of his strength, and of the position of leader which it had
secured him. Moreover he was democratic in his tastes, and had a jealous hatred
of those who wore good clothes and kept their faces clean. He called it putting
on airs, and resented the implied superiority. If he had been fifteen years
older, and had a trifle more education, he would have interested himself in
politics, and been prominent at ward meetings, and a terror to respectable
voters on election day. As it was, he contented himself with being the leader
of a gang of young ruffians, over whom he wielded a despotic power.
</p>

<p>
Now it is only justice to Dick to say that, so far as wearing good clothes was
concerned, he had never hitherto offended the eyes of Micky Maguire. Indeed,
they generally looked as if they patronized the same clothing establishment. On
this particular morning it chanced that Micky had not been very fortunate in a
business way, and, as a natural consequence, his temper, never very amiable,
was somewhat ruffled by the fact. He had had a very frugal breakfast,—not
because he felt abstemious, but owing to the low state of his finances. He was
walking along with one of his particular friends, a boy nicknamed Limpy Jim, so
called from a slight peculiarity in his walk, when all at once he espied our
friend Dick in his new suit.
</p>

<p>
“My eyes!” he exclaimed, in astonishment; “Jim, just look at
Ragged Dick. He’s come into a fortun’, and turned gentleman. See
his new clothes.”
</p>

<p>
“So he has,” said Jim. “Where’d he get ’em, I
wonder?”
</p>

<p>
“Hooked ’em, p’raps. Let’s go and stir him up a little.
We don’t want no gentlemen on our beat. So he’s puttin’ on
airs,—is he? I’ll give him a lesson.”
</p>

<p>
So saying the two boys walked up to our hero, who had not observed them, his
back being turned, and Micky Maguire gave him a smart slap on the shoulder.
</p>

<p>
Dick turned round quickly.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap14" id="chap14"></a>CHAPTER XIV.<br />
A BATTLE AND A VICTORY</h2>

<p>
“What’s that for?” demanded Dick, turning round to see who
had struck him.
</p>

<p>
“You’re gettin’ mighty fine!” said Micky Maguire,
surveying Dick’s new clothes with a scornful air.
</p>

<p>
There was something in his words and tone, which Dick, who was disposed to
stand up for his dignity, did not at all relish.
</p>

<p>
“Well, what’s the odds if I am?” he retorted. “Does it
hurt you any?”
</p>

<p>
“See him put on airs, Jim,” said Micky, turning to his companion.
“Where’d you get them clo’es?”
</p>

<p>
“Never mind where I got ’em. Maybe the Prince of Wales gave
’em to me.”
</p>

<p>
“Hear him, now, Jim,” said Micky. “Most likely he stole
’em.”
</p>

<p>
“Stealin’ aint in <i>my</i> line.”
</p>

<p>
It might have been unconscious the emphasis which Dick placed on the word
“my.” At any rate Micky chose to take offence.
</p>

<p>
“Do you mean to say <i>I</i> steal?” he demanded, doubling up his
fist, and advancing towards Dick in a threatening manner.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t say anything about it,” answered Dick, by no means
alarmed at this hostile demonstration. “I know you’ve been to the
Island twice. P’r’aps ’twas to make a visit along of the
Mayor and Aldermen. Maybe you was a innocent victim of oppression. I aint a
goin’ to say.”
</p>

<p>
Micky’s freckled face grew red with wrath, for Dick had only stated the
truth.
</p>

<p>
“Do you mean to insult me?” he demanded shaking the fist already
doubled up in Dick’s face. “Maybe you want a lickin’?”
</p>

<p>
“I aint partic’larly anxious to get one,” said Dick, coolly.
“They don’t agree with my constitution which is nat’rally
delicate. I’d rather have a good dinner than a lickin’ any
time.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re afraid,” sneered Micky. “Isn’t he,
Jim?”
</p>

<p>
“In course he is.”
</p>

<p>
“P’r’aps I am,” said Dick, composedly, “but it
don’t trouble me much.”
</p>

<p>
“Do you want to fight?” demanded Micky, encouraged by Dick’s
quietness, fancying he was afraid to encounter him.
</p>

<p>
“No, I don’t,” said Dick. “I aint fond of
fightin’. It’s a very poor amusement, and very bad for the
complexion, ’specially for the eyes and nose, which is apt to turn red,
white, and blue.”
</p>

<p>
Micky misunderstood Dick, and judged from the tenor of his speech that he would
be an easy victim. As he knew, Dick very seldom was concerned in any street
fight,—not from cowardice, as he imagined, but because he had too much
good sense to do so. Being quarrelsome, like all bullies, and supposing that he
was more than a match for our hero, being about two inches taller, he could no
longer resist an inclination to assault him, and tried to plant a blow in
Dick’s face which would have hurt him considerably if he had not drawn
back just in time.
</p>

<p>
Now, though Dick was far from quarrelsome, he was ready to defend himself on
all occasions, and it was too much to expect that he would stand quiet and
allow himself to be beaten.
</p>

<p>
He dropped his blacking-box on the instant, and returned Micky’s blow
with such good effect that the young bully staggered back, and would have
fallen, if he had not been propped up by his confederate, Limpy Jim.
</p>

<p>
“Go in, Micky!” shouted the latter, who was rather a coward on his
own account, but liked to see others fight. “Polish him off, that’s
a good feller.”
</p>

<p>
Micky was now boiling over with rage and fury, and required no urging. He was
fully determined to make a terrible example of poor Dick. He threw himself upon
him, and strove to bear him to the ground; but Dick, avoiding a close hug, in
which he might possibly have got the worst of it, by an adroit movement,
tripped up his antagonist, and stretched him on the side walk.
</p>

<p>
“Hit him, Jim!” exclaimed Micky, furiously.
</p>

<p>
Limpy Jim did not seem inclined to obey orders. There was a quiet strength and
coolness about Dick, which alarmed him. He preferred that Micky should incur
all the risks of battle, and accordingly set himself to raising his fallen
comrade.
</p>

<p>
“Come, Micky,” said Dick, quietly, “you’d better give
it up. I wouldn’t have touched you if you hadn’t hit me first. I
don’t want to fight. It’s low business.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re afraid of hurtin’ your clo’es,” said
Micky, with a sneer.
</p>

<p>
“Maybe I am,” said Dick. “I hope I haven’t hurt
yours.”
</p>

<p>
Micky’s answer to this was another attack, as violent and impetuous as
the first. But his fury was in the way. He struck wildly, not measuring his
blows, and Dick had no difficulty in turning aside, so that his
antagonist’s blow fell upon the empty air, and his momentum was such that
he nearly fell forward headlong. Dick might readily have taken advantage of his
unsteadiness, and knocked him down; but he was not vindictive, and chose to act
on the defensive, except when he could not avoid it.
</p>

<p>
Recovering himself, Micky saw that Dick was a more formidable antagonist than
he had supposed, and was meditating another assault, better planned, which by
its impetuosity might bear our hero to the ground. But there was an
unlooked-for interference.
</p>

<p>
“Look out for the ‘copp,’” said Jim, in a low voice.
</p>

<p>
Micky turned round and saw a tall policeman heading towards him, and thought it
might be prudent to suspend hostilities. He accordingly picked up his
black-box, and, hitching up his pants, walked off, attended by Limpy Jim.
</p>

<p>
“What’s that chap been doing?” asked the policeman of Dick.
</p>

<p>
“He was amoosin’ himself by pitchin’ into me,” replied
Dick.
</p>

<p>
“What for?”
</p>

<p>
“He didn’t like it ’cause I patronized a different tailor
from him.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, it seems to me you <i>are</i> dressed pretty smart for a
boot-black,” said the policeman.
</p>

<p>
“I wish I wasn’t a boot-black,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Never mind, my lad. It’s an honest business,” said the
policeman, who was a sensible man and a worthy citizen. “It’s an
honest business. Stick to it till you get something better.”
</p>

<p>
“I mean to,” said Dick. “It aint easy to get out of it, as
the prisoner remarked, when he was asked how he liked his residence.”
</p>

<p>
“I hope you don’t speak from experience.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “I don’t mean to get into prison if I
can help it.”
</p>

<p>
“Do you see that gentleman over there?” asked the officer, pointing
to a well-dressed man who was walking on the other side of the street.
</p>

<p>
“Yes.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, he was once a newsboy.”
</p>

<p>
“And what is he now?”
</p>

<p>
“He keeps a bookstore, and is quite prosperous.”
</p>

<p>
Dick looked at the gentleman with interest, wondering if he should look as
respectable when he was a grown man.
</p>

<p>
It will be seen that Dick was getting ambitious. Hitherto he had thought very
little of the future, but was content to get along as he could, dining as well
as his means would allow, and spending the evenings in the pit of the Old
Bowery, eating peanuts between the acts if he was prosperous, and if unlucky
supping on dry bread or an apple, and sleeping in an old box or a wagon. Now,
for the first time, he began to reflect that he could not black boots all his
life. In seven years he would be a man, and, since his meeting with Frank, he
felt that he would like to be a respectable man. He could see and appreciate
the difference between Frank and such a boy as Micky Maguire, and it was not
strange that he preferred the society of the former.
</p>

<p>
In the course of the next morning, in pursuance of his new resolutions for the
future, he called at a savings bank, and held out four dollars in bills besides
another dollar in change. There was a high railing, and a number of clerks
busily writing at desks behind it. Dick, never having been in a bank before,
did not know where to go. He went, by mistake, to the desk where money was paid
out.
</p>

<p>
“Where’s your book?” asked the clerk.
</p>

<p>
“I haven’t got any.”
</p>

<p>
“Have you any money deposited here?”
</p>

<p>
“No, sir, I want to leave some here.”
</p>

<p>
“Then go to the next desk.”
</p>

<p>
Dick followed directions, and presented himself before an elderly man with gray
hair, who looked at him over the rims of his spectacles.
</p>

<p>
“I want you to keep that for me,” said Dick, awkwardly emptying his
money out on the desk.
</p>

<p>
“How much is there?”
</p>

<p>
“Five dollars.”
</p>

<p>
“Have you got an account here?”
</p>

<p>
“No, sir.”
</p>

<p>
“Of course you can write?”
</p>

<p>
The “of course” was said on account of Dick’s neat dress.
</p>

<p>
“Have I got to do any writing?” asked our hero, a little
embarrassed.
</p>

<p>
“We want you to sign your name in this book,” and the old gentleman
shoved round a large folio volume containing the names of depositors.
</p>

<p>
Dick surveyed the book with some awe.
</p>

<p>
“I aint much on writin’,” he said.
</p>

<p>
“Very well; write as well as you can.”
</p>

<p>
The pen was put into Dick’s hand, and, after dipping it in the inkstand,
he succeeded after a hard effort, accompanied by many contortions of the face,
in inscribing upon the book of the bank the name
</p>

<p class="center">
D<small>ICK</small> H<small>UNTER</small>.
</p>

<p>
“Dick!—that means Richard, I suppose,” said the bank officer,
who had some difficulty in making out the signature.
</p>

<p>
“No; Ragged Dick is what folks call me.”
</p>

<p>
“You don’t look very ragged.”
</p>

<p>
“No, I’ve left my rags to home. They might get wore out if I used
’em too common.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, my lad, I’ll make out a book in the name of Dick Hunter,
since you seem to prefer Dick to Richard. I hope you will save up your money
and deposit more with us.”
</p>

<p>
Our hero took his bank-book, and gazed on the entry “Five Dollars”
with a new sense of importance. He had been accustomed to joke about Erie
shares, but now, for the first time, he felt himself a capitalist; on a small
scale, to be sure, but still it was no small thing for Dick to have five
dollars which he could call his own. He firmly determined that he would lay by
every cent he could spare from his earnings towards the fund he hoped to
accumulate.
</p>

<p>
But Dick was too sensible not to know that there was something more than money
needed to win a respectable position in the world. He felt that he was very
ignorant. Of reading and writing he only knew the rudiments, and that, with a
slight acquaintance with arithmetic, was all he did know of books. Dick knew he
must study hard, and he dreaded it. He looked upon learning as attended with
greater difficulties than it really possesses. But Dick had good pluck. He
meant to learn, nevertheless, and resolved to buy a book with his first spare
earnings.
</p>

<p>
When Dick went home at night he locked up his bank-book in one of the drawers
of the bureau. It was wonderful how much more independent he felt whenever he
reflected upon the contents of that drawer, and with what an important air of
joint ownership he regarded the bank building in which his small savings were
deposited.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap15" id="chap15"></a>CHAPTER XV.<br />
DICK SECURES A TUTOR</h2>

<p>
The next morning Dick was unusually successful, having plenty to do, and
receiving for one job twenty-five cents,—the gentleman refusing to take
change. Then flashed upon Dick’s mind the thought that he had not yet
returned the change due to the gentleman whose boots he had blacked on the
morning of his introduction to the reader.
</p>

<p>
“What’ll he think of me?” said Dick to himself. “I hope
he won’t think I’m mean enough to keep the money.”
</p>

<p>
Now Dick was scrupulously honest, and though the temptation to be otherwise had
often been strong, he had always resisted it. He was not willing on any account
to keep money which did not belong to him, and he immediately started for 125
Fulton Street (the address which had been given him) where he found Mr.
Greyson’s name on the door of an office on the first floor.
</p>

<p>
The door being open, Dick walked in.
</p>

<p>
“Is Mr. Greyson in?” he asked of a clerk who sat on a high stool
before a desk.
</p>

<p>
“Not just now. He’ll be in soon. Will you wait?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Very well; take a seat then.”
</p>

<p>
Dick sat down and took up the morning “Tribune,” but presently came
to a word of four syllables, which he pronounced to himself a
“sticker,” and laid it down. But he had not long to wait, for five
minutes later Mr. Greyson entered.
</p>

<p>
“Did you wish to speak to me, my lad?” said he to Dick, whom in his
new clothes he did not recognize.
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir,” said Dick. “I owe you some money.”
</p>

<p>
“Indeed!” said Mr. Greyson, pleasantly; “that’s an
agreeable surprise. I didn’t know but you had come for some. So you are a
debtor of mine, and not a creditor?”
</p>

<p>
“I b’lieve that’s right,” said Dick, drawing fifteen
cents from his pocket, and placing in Mr. Greyson’s hand.
</p>

<p>
“Fifteen cents!” repeated he, in some surprise. “How do you
happen to be indebted to me in that amount?”
</p>

<p>
“You gave me a quarter for a-shinin’ your boots, yesterday
mornin’, and couldn’t wait for the change. I meant to have brought
it before, but I forgot all about it till this mornin’.”
</p>

<p>
“It had quite slipped my mind also. But you don’t look like the boy
I employed. If I remember rightly he wasn’t as well dressed as
you.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick. “I was dressed for a party, then, but the
clo’es was too well ventilated to be comfortable in cold weather.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re an honest boy,” said Mr. Greyson. “Who taught
you to be honest?”
</p>

<p>
“Nobody,” said Dick. “But it’s mean to cheat and steal.
I’ve always knowed that.”
</p>

<p>
“Then you’ve got ahead of some of our business men. Do you read the
Bible?”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick. “I’ve heard it’s a good book,
but I don’t know much about it.”
</p>

<p>
“You ought to go to some Sunday School. Would you be willing?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, promptly. “I want to grow up
’spectable. But I don’t know where to go.”
</p>

<p>
“Then I’ll tell you. The church I attend is at the corner of Fifth
Avenue and Twenty-first Street.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ve seen it,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I have a class in the Sunday School there. If you’ll come next
Sunday, I’ll take you into my class, and do what I can to help
you.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you,” said Dick, “but p’r’aps you’ll
get tired of teaching me. I’m awful ignorant.”
</p>

<p>
“No, my lad,” said Mr. Greyson, kindly. “You evidently have
some good principles to start with, as you have shown by your scorn of
dishonesty. I shall hope good things of you in the future.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, Dick,” said our hero, apostrophizing himself, as he left the
office; “you’re gettin’ up in the world. You’ve got
money invested, and are goin’ to attend church, by partic’lar
invitation, on Fifth Avenue. I shouldn’t wonder much if you should find
cards, when you get home, from the Mayor, requestin’ the honor of your
company to dinner, along with other distinguished guests.”
</p>

<p>
Dick felt in very good spirits. He seemed to be emerging from the world in
which he had hitherto lived, into a new atmosphere of respectability, and the
change seemed very pleasant to him.
</p>

<p>
At six o’clock Dick went into a restaurant on Chatham Street, and got a
comfortable supper. He had been so successful during the day that, after paying
for this, he still had ninety cents left. While he was despatching his supper,
another boy came in, smaller and slighter than Dick, and sat down beside him.
Dick recognized him as a boy who three months before had entered the ranks of
the boot-blacks, but who, from a natural timidity, had not been able to earn
much. He was ill-fitted for the coarse companionship of the street boys, and
shrank from the rude jokes of his present associates. Dick had never troubled
him; for our hero had a certain chivalrous feeling which would not allow him to
bully or disturb a younger and weaker boy than himself.
</p>

<p>
“How are you, Fosdick?” said Dick, as the other seated himself.
</p>

<p>
“Pretty well,” said Fosdick. “I suppose you’re all
right.”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, yes, I’m right side up with care. I’ve been havin’
a bully supper. What are you goin’ to have?”
</p>

<p>
“Some bread and butter.”
</p>

<p>
“Why don’t you get a cup o’ coffee?”
</p>

<p>
“Why,” said Fosdick, reluctantly, “I haven’t got money
enough to-night.”
</p>

<p>
“Never mind,” said Dick; “I’m in luck to-day,
I’ll stand treat.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s kind in you,” said Fosdick, gratefully.
</p>

<p>
“Oh, never mind that,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
Accordingly he ordered a cup of coffee, and a plate of beefsteak, and was
gratified to see that his young companion partook of both with evident relish.
When the repast was over, the boys went out into the street together, Dick
pausing at the desk to settle for both suppers.
</p>

<p>
“Where are you going to sleep to-night, Fosdick?” asked Dick, as
they stood on the sidewalk.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know,” said Fosdick, a little sadly. “In some
doorway, I expect. But I’m afraid the police will find me out, and make
me move on.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll tell you what,” said Dick, “you must go home with
me. I guess my bed will hold two.”
</p>

<p>
“Have you got a room?” asked the other, in surprise.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, rather proudly, and with a little excusable
exultation. “I’ve got a room over in Mott Street; there I can
receive my friends. That’ll be better than sleepin’ in a
door-way,—won’t it?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, indeed it will,” said Fosdick. “How lucky I was to come
across you! It comes hard to me living as I do. When my father was alive I had
every comfort.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s more’n I ever had,” said Dick. “But
I’m goin’ to try to live comfortable now. Is your father
dead?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Fosdick, sadly. “He was a printer; but he was
drowned one dark night from a Fulton ferry-boat, and, as I had no relations in
the city, and no money, I was obliged to go to work as quick as I could. But I
don’t get on very well.”
</p>

<p>
“Didn’t you have no brothers nor sisters?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Fosdick; “father and I used to live alone. He was
always so much company to me that I feel very lonesome without him.
There’s a man out West somewhere that owes him two thousand dollars. He
used to live in the city, and father lent him all his money to help him go into
business; but he failed, or pretended to, and went off. If father hadn’t
lost that money he would have left me well off; but no money would have made up
his loss to me.”
</p>

<p>
“What’s the man’s name that went off with your father’s
money?”
</p>

<p>
“His name is Hiram Bates.”
</p>

<p>
“P’r’aps you’ll get the money again, sometime.”
</p>

<p>
“There isn’t much chance of it,” said Fosdick.
“I’d sell out my chances of that for five dollars.”
</p>

<p>
“Maybe I’ll buy you out sometime,” said Dick. “Now,
come round and see what sort of a room I’ve got. I used to go to the
theatre evenings, when I had money; but now I’d rather go to bed early,
and have a good sleep.”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t care much about theatres,” said Fosdick.
“Father didn’t use to let me go very often. He said it wasn’t
good for boys.”
</p>

<p>
“I like to go to the Old Bowery sometimes. They have tip-top plays there.
Can you read and write well?” he asked, as a sudden thought came to him.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Fosdick. “Father always kept me at school when he
was alive, and I stood pretty well in my classes. I was expecting to enter at
the Free Academy* next year.”
</p>

<p class="footnote">
* Now the college of the city of New York.
</p>

<p>
“Then I’ll tell you what,” said Dick; “I’ll make
a bargain with you. I can’t read much more’n a pig; and my
writin’ looks like hens’ tracks. I don’t want to grow up
knowin’ no more’n a four-year-old boy. If you’ll teach me
readin’ and writin’ evenin’s, you shall sleep in my room
every night. That’ll be better’n door-steps or old boxes, where
I’ve slept many a time.”
</p>

<p>
“Are you in earnest?” said Fosdick, his face lighting up hopefully.
</p>

<p>
“In course I am,” said Dick. “It’s fashionable for
young gentlemen to have private tootors to introduct ’em into the
flower-beds of literatoor and science, and why shouldn’t I foller the
fashion? You shall be my perfessor; only you must promise not to be very hard
if my writin’ looks like a rail-fence on a bender.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll try not to be too severe,” said Fosdick, laughing.
“I shall be thankful for such a chance to get a place to sleep. Have you
got anything to read out of?”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick. “My extensive and well-selected library was
lost overboard in a storm, when I was sailin’ from the Sandwich Islands
to the desert of Sahara. But I’ll buy a paper. That’ll do me a long
time.”
</p>

<p>
Accordingly Dick stopped at a paper-stand, and bought a copy of a weekly paper,
filled with the usual variety of reading matter,—stories, sketches,
poems, etc.
</p>

<p>
They soon arrived at Dick’s lodging-house. Our hero, procuring a lamp
from the landlady, led the way into his apartment, which he entered with the
proud air of a proprietor.
</p>

<p>
“Well, how do you like it, Fosdick?” he asked, complacently.
</p>

<p>
The time was when Fosdick would have thought it untidy and not particularly
attractive. But he had served a severe apprenticeship in the streets, and it
was pleasant to feel himself under shelter, and he was not disposed to be
critical.
</p>

<p>
“It looks very comfortable, Dick,” he said.
</p>

<p>
“The bed aint very large,” said Dick; “but I guess we can get
along.”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, yes,” said Fosdick, cheerfully. “I don’t take up
much room.”
</p>

<p>
“Then that’s all right. There’s two chairs, you see, one for
you and one for me. In case the mayor comes in to spend the evenin’
socially, he can sit on the bed.”
</p>

<p>
The boys seated themselves, and five minutes later, under the guidance of his
young tutor, Dick had commenced his studies.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap16" id="chap16"></a>CHAPTER XVI.<br />
THE FIRST LESSON</h2>

<p>
Fortunately for Dick, his young tutor was well qualified to instruct him. Henry
Fosdick, though only twelve years old, knew as much as many boys of fourteen.
He had always been studious and ambitious to excel. His father, being a
printer, employed in an office where books were printed, often brought home new
books in sheets, which Henry was always glad to read. Mr. Fosdick had been,
besides, a subscriber to the Mechanics’ Apprentices’ Library, which
contains many thousands of well-selected and instructive books. Thus Henry had
acquired an amount of general information, unusual in a boy of his age. Perhaps
he had devoted too much time to study, for he was not naturally robust. All
this, however, fitted him admirably for the office to which Dick had appointed
him,—that of his private instructor.
</p>

<p>
The two boys drew up their chairs to the rickety table, and spread out the
paper before them.
</p>

<p>
“The exercises generally Commence with ringin’ the bell,”
said Dick; “but as I aint got none, we’ll have to do
without.”
</p>

<p>
“And the teacher is generally provided with a rod,” said Fosdick.
“Isn’t there a poker handy, that I can use in case my scholar
doesn’t behave well?”
</p>

<p>
“’Taint lawful to use fire-arms,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Now, Dick,” said Fosdick, “before we begin, I must find out
how much you already know. Can you read any?”
</p>

<p>
“Not enough to hurt me,” said Dick. “All I know about
readin’ you could put in a nutshell, and there’d be room left for a
small family.”
</p>

<p>
“I suppose you know your letters?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, “I know ’em all, but not intimately.
I guess I can call ’em all by name.”
</p>

<p>
“Where did you learn them? Did you ever go to school?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes; I went two days.”
</p>

<p>
“Why did you stop?”
</p>

<p>
“It didn’t agree with my constitution.”
</p>

<p>
“You don’t look very delicate,” said Fosdick.
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick, “I aint troubled much that way; but I found
lickins didn’t agree with me.”
</p>

<p>
“Did you get punished?”
</p>

<p>
“Awful,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“What for?”
</p>

<p>
“For indulgin’ in a little harmless amoosement,” said Dick.
“You see the boy that was sittin’ next to me fell asleep, which I
considered improper in school-time; so I thought I’d help the teacher a
little by wakin’ him up. So I took a pin and stuck into him; but I guess
it went a little too far, for he screeched awful. The teacher found out what it
was that made him holler, and whipped me with a ruler till I was black and
blue. I thought ’twas about time to take a vacation; so that’s the
last time I went to school.”
</p>

<p>
“You didn’t learn to read in that time, of course?”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “but I was a newsboy a little while; so I
learned a little, just so’s to find out what the news was. Sometimes I
didn’t read straight and called the wrong news. One mornin’ I asked
another boy what the paper said, and he told me the King of Africa was dead. I
thought it was all right till folks began to laugh.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, Dick, if you’ll only study well, you won’t be liable
to make such mistakes.”
</p>

<p>
“I hope so,” said Dick. “My friend Horace Greeley told me the
other day that he’d get me to take his place now and then when he was off
makin’ speeches if my edication hadn’t been neglected.”
</p>

<p>
“I must find a good piece for you to begin on,” said Fosdick,
looking over the paper.
</p>

<p>
“Find an easy one,” said Dick, “with words of one
story.”
</p>

<p>
Fosdick at length found a piece which he thought would answer. He discovered on
trial that Dick had not exaggerated his deficiencies. Words of two syllables he
seldom pronounced right, and was much surprised when he was told how
“through” was sounded.
</p>

<p>
“Seems to me it’s throwin’ away letters to use all
them,” he said.
</p>

<p>
“How would you spell it?” asked his young teacher.
</p>

<p>
“T-h-r-u,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Well,” said Fosdick, “there’s a good many other words
that are spelt with more letters than they need to have. But it’s the
fashion, and we must follow it.”
</p>

<p>
But if Dick was ignorant, he was quick, and had an excellent capacity. Moreover
he had perseverance, and was not easily discouraged. He had made up his mind he
must know more, and was not disposed to complain of the difficulty of his task.
Fosdick had occasion to laugh more than once at his ludicrous mistakes; but
Dick laughed too, and on the whole both were quite interested in the lesson.
</p>

<p>
At the end of an hour and a half the boys stopped for the evening.
</p>

<p>
“You’re learning fast, Dick,” said Fosdick. “At this
rate you will soon learn to read well.”
</p>

<p>
“Will I?” asked Dick with an expression of satisfaction.
“I’m glad of that. I don’t want to be ignorant. I
didn’t use to care, but I do now. I want to grow up
’spectable.”
</p>

<p>
“So do I, Dick. We will both help each other, and I am sure we can
accomplish something. But I am beginning to feel sleepy.”
</p>

<p>
“So am I,” said Dick. “Them hard words make my head ache. I
wonder who made ’em all?”
</p>

<p>
“That’s more than I can tell. I suppose you’ve seen a
dictionary.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s another of ’em. No, I can’t say I have, though
I may have seen him in the street without knowin’ him.”
</p>

<p>
“A dictionary is a book containing all the words in the language.”
</p>

<p>
“How many are there?”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t rightly know; but I think there are about fifty
thousand.”
</p>

<p>
“It’s a pretty large family,” said Dick. “Have I got to
learn ’em all?”
</p>

<p>
“That will not be necessary. There are a large number which you would
never find occasion to use.”
</p>

<p>
“I’m glad of that,” said Dick; “for I don’t
expect to live to be more’n a hundred, and by that time I wouldn’t
be more’n half through.”
</p>

<p>
By this time the flickering lamp gave a decided hint to the boys that unless
they made haste they would have to undress in the dark. They accordingly drew
off their clothes, and Dick jumped into bed. But Fosdick, before doing so,
knelt down by the side of the bed, and said a short prayer.
</p>

<p>
“What’s that for?” asked Dick, curiously.
</p>

<p>
“I was saying my prayers,” said Fosdick, as he rose from his knees.
“Don’t you ever do it?”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick. “Nobody ever taught me.”
</p>

<p>
“Then I’ll teach you. Shall I?”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know,” said Dick, dubiously. “What’s the
good?”
</p>

<p>
Fosdick explained as well as he could, and perhaps his simple explanation was
better adapted to Dick’s comprehension than one from an older person
would have been. Dick felt more free to ask questions, and the example of his
new friend, for whom he was beginning to feel a warm attachment, had
considerable effect upon him. When, therefore, Fosdick asked again if he should
teach him a prayer, Dick consented, and his young bedfellow did so. Dick was
not naturally irreligious. If he had lived without a knowledge of God and of
religious things, it was scarcely to be wondered at in a lad who, from an early
age, had been thrown upon his own exertions for the means of living, with no
one to care for him or give him good advice. But he was so far good that he
could appreciate goodness in others, and this it was that had drawn him to
Frank in the first place, and now to Henry Fosdick. He did not, therefore,
attempt to ridicule his companion, as some boys better brought up might have
done, but was willing to follow his example in what something told him was
right. Our young hero had taken an important step toward securing that genuine
respectability which he was ambitious to attain.
</p>

<p>
Weary with the day’s work, and Dick perhaps still more fatigued by the
unusual mental effort he had made, the boys soon sank into a deep and peaceful
slumber, from which they did not awaken till six o’clock the next
morning. Before going out Dick sought Mrs. Mooney, and spoke to her on the
subject of taking Fosdick as a room-mate. He found that she had no objection,
provided he would allow her twenty-five cents a week extra, in consideration of
the extra trouble which his companion might be expected to make. To this Dick
assented, and the arrangement was definitely concluded.
</p>

<p>
This over, the two boys went out and took stations near each other. Dick had
more of a business turn than Henry, and less shrinking from publicity, so that
his earnings were greater. But he had undertaken to pay the entire expenses of
the room, and needed to earn more. Sometimes, when two customers presented
themselves at the same time, he was able to direct one to his friend. So at the
end of the week both boys found themselves with surplus earnings. Dick had the
satisfaction of adding two dollars and a half to his deposits in the Savings
Bank, and Fosdick commenced an account by depositing seventy-five cents.
</p>

<p>
On Sunday morning Dick bethought himself of his promise to Mr. Greyson to come
to the church on Fifth Avenue. To tell the truth, Dick recalled it with some
regret. He had never been inside a church since he could remember, and he was
not much attracted by the invitation he had received. But Henry, finding him
wavering, urged him to go, and offered to go with him. Dick gladly accepted the
offer, feeling that he required someone to lend him countenance under such
unusual circumstances.
</p>

<p>
Dick dressed himself with scrupulous care, giving his shoes a
“shine” so brilliant that it did him great credit in a professional
point of view, and endeavored to clean his hands thoroughly; but, in spite of
all he could do, they were not so white as if his business had been of a
different character.
</p>

<p>
Having fully completed his preparations, he descended into the street, and,
with Henry by his side, crossed over to Broadway.
</p>

<p>
The boys pursued their way up Broadway, which on Sunday presents a striking
contrast in its quietness to the noise and confusion of ordinary week-days, as
far as Union Square, then turned down Fourteenth Street, which brought them to
Fifth Avenue.
</p>

<p>
“Suppose we dine at Delmonico’s,” said Fosdick, looking
towards that famous restaurant.
</p>

<p>
“I’d have to sell some of my Erie shares,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
A short walk now brought them to the church of which mention has already been
made. They stood outside, a little abashed, watching the fashionably attired
people who were entering, and were feeling a little undecided as to whether
they had better enter also, when Dick felt a light touch upon his shoulder.
</p>

<p>
Turning round, he met the smiling glance of Mr. Greyson.
</p>

<p>
“So, my young friend, you have kept your promise,” he said.
“And whom have you brought with you?”
</p>

<p>
“A friend of mine,” said Dick. “His name is Henry
Fosdick.”
</p>

<p>
“I am glad you have brought him. Now follow me, and I will give you
seats.”
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap17" id="chap17"></a>CHAPTER XVII.<br />
DICK’S FIRST APPEARANCE IN SOCIETY</h2>

<p>
It was the hour for morning service. The boys followed Mr. Greyson into the
handsome church, and were assigned seats in his own pew.
</p>

<p>
There were two persons already seated in it,—a good-looking lady of
middle age, and a pretty little girl of nine. They were Mrs. Greyson and her
only daughter Ida. They looked pleasantly at the boys as they entered, smiling
a welcome to them.
</p>

<p>
The morning service commenced. It must be acknowledged that Dick felt rather
awkward. It was an unusual place for him, and it need not be wondered at that
he felt like a cat in a strange garret. He would not have known when to rise if
he had not taken notice of what the rest of the audience did, and followed
their example. He was sitting next to Ida, and as it was the first time he had
ever been near so well-dressed a young lady, he naturally felt bashful. When
the hymns were announced, Ida found the place, and offered a hymn-book to our
hero. Dick took it awkwardly, but his studies had not yet been pursued far
enough for him to read the words readily. However, he resolved to keep up
appearances, and kept his eyes fixed steadily on the hymn-book.
</p>

<p>
At length the service was over. The people began to file slowly out of church,
and among them, of course, Mr. Greyson’s family and the two boys. It
seemed very strange to Dick to find himself in such different companionship
from what he had been accustomed, and he could not help thinking, “Wonder
what Johnny Nolan ’ould say if he could see me now!”
</p>

<p>
But Johnny’s business engagements did not often summon him to Fifth
Avenue, and Dick was not likely to be seen by any of his friends in the lower
part of the city.
</p>

<p>
“We have our Sunday school in the afternoon,” said Mr. Greyson.
“I suppose you live at some distance from here?”
</p>

<p>
“In Mott Street, sir,” answered Dick.
</p>

<p>
“That is too far to go and return. Suppose you and your friend come and
dine with us, and then we can come here together in the afternoon.”
</p>

<p>
Dick was as much astonished at this invitation as if he had really been invited
by the Mayor to dine with him and the Board of Aldermen. Mr. Greyson was
evidently a rich man, and yet he had actually invited two boot-blacks to dine
with him.
</p>

<p>
“I guess we’d better go home, sir,” said Dick, hesitating.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t think you can have any very pressing engagements to
interfere with your accepting my invitation,” said Mr. Greyson,
good-humoredly, for he understood the reason of Dick’s hesitation.
“So I take it for granted that you both accept.”
</p>

<p>
Before Dick fairly knew what he intended to do, he was walking down Fifth
Avenue with his new friends.
</p>

<p>
Now, our young hero was not naturally bashful; but he certainly felt so now,
especially as Miss Ida Greyson chose to walk by his side, leaving Henry Fosdick
to walk with her father and mother.
</p>

<p>
“What is your name?” asked Ida, pleasantly.
</p>

<p>
Our hero was about to answer “Ragged Dick,” when it occurred to him
that in the present company he had better forget his old nickname.
</p>

<p>
“Dick Hunter,” he answered.
</p>

<p>
“Dick!” repeated Ida. “That means Richard, doesn’t
it?”
</p>

<p>
“Everybody calls me Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“I have a cousin Dick,” said the young lady, sociably. “His
name is Dick Wilson. I suppose you don’t know him?”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I like the name of Dick,” said the young lady, with charming
frankness.
</p>

<p>
Without being able to tell why, Dick felt rather glad she did. He plucked up
courage to ask her name.
</p>

<p>
“My name is Ida,” answered the young lady. “Do you like
it?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick. “It’s a bully name.”
</p>

<p>
Dick turned red as soon as he had said it, for he felt that he had not used the
right expression.
</p>

<p>
The little girl broke into a silvery laugh.
</p>

<p>
“What a funny boy you are!” she said.
</p>

<p>
“I didn’t mean it,” said Dick, stammering. “I meant
it’s a tip-top name.”
</p>

<p>
Here Ida laughed again, and Dick wished himself back in Mott Street.
</p>

<p>
“How old are you?” inquired Ida, continuing her examination.
</p>

<p>
“I’m fourteen,—goin’ on fifteen,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“You’re a big boy of your age,” said Ida. “My cousin
Dick is a year older than you, but he isn’t as large.”
</p>

<p>
Dick looked pleased. Boys generally like to be told that they are large of
their age.
</p>

<p>
“How old be you?” asked Dick, beginning to feel more at his ease.
</p>

<p>
“I’m nine years old,” said Ida. “I go to Miss
Jarvis’s school. I’ve just begun to learn French. Do you know
French?”
</p>

<p>
“Not enough to hurt me,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
Ida laughed again, and told him that he was a droll boy.
</p>

<p>
“Do you like it?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I like it pretty well, except the verbs. I can’t remember them
well. Do you go to school?”
</p>

<p>
“I’m studying with a private tutor,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Are you? So is my cousin Dick. He’s going to college this year.
Are you going to college?”
</p>

<p>
“Not this year.”
</p>

<p>
“Because, if you did, you know you’d be in the same class with my
cousin. It would be funny to have two Dicks in one class.”
</p>

<p>
They turned down Twenty-fourth Street, passing the Fifth Avenue Hotel on the
left, and stopped before an elegant house with a brown stone front. The bell
was rung, and the door being opened, the boys, somewhat abashed, followed Mr.
Greyson into a handsome hall. They were told where to hang their hats, and a
moment afterwards were ushered into a comfortable dining-room, where a table
was spread for dinner.
</p>

<p>
Dick took his seat on the edge of a sofa, and was tempted to rub his eyes to
make sure that he was really awake. He could hardly believe that he was a guest
in so fine a mansion.
</p>

<p>
Ida helped to put the boys at their ease.
</p>

<p>
“Do you like pictures?” she asked.
</p>

<p>
“Very much,” answered Henry.
</p>

<p>
The little girl brought a book of handsome engravings, and, seating herself
beside Dick, to whom she seemed to have taken a decided fancy, commenced
showing them to him.
</p>

<p>
“There are the Pyramids of Egypt,” she said, pointing to one
engraving.
</p>

<p>
“What are they for?” asked Dick, puzzled. “I don’t see
any winders.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Ida, “I don’t believe anybody lives there.
Do they, papa?”
</p>

<p>
“No, my dear. They were used for the burial of the dead. The largest of
them is said to be the loftiest building in the world with one exception. The
spire of the Cathedral of Strasburg is twenty-four feet higher, if I remember
rightly.”
</p>

<p>
“Is Egypt near here?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Oh, no, it’s ever so many miles off; about four or five hundred.
Didn’t you know?”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick. “I never heard.”
</p>

<p>
“You don’t appear to be very accurate in your information,
Ida,” said her mother. “Four or five thousand miles would be
considerably nearer the truth.”
</p>

<p>
After a little more conversation they sat down to dinner. Dick seated himself
in an embarrassed way. He was very much afraid of doing or saying something
which would be considered an impropriety, and had the uncomfortable feeling
that everybody was looking at him, and watching his behavior.
</p>

<p>
“Where do you live, Dick?” asked Ida, familiarly.
</p>

<p>
“In Mott Street.”
</p>

<p>
“Where is that?”
</p>

<p>
“More than a mile off.”
</p>

<p>
“Is it a nice street?”
</p>

<p>
“Not very,” said Dick. “Only poor folks live there.”
</p>

<p>
“Are you poor?”
</p>

<p>
“Little girls should be seen and not heard,” said her mother,
gently.
</p>

<p>
“If you are,” said Ida, “I’ll give you the five-dollar
gold-piece aunt gave me for a birthday present.”
</p>

<p>
“Dick cannot be called poor, my child,” said Mrs. Greyson,
“since he earns his living by his own exertions.”
</p>

<p>
“Do you earn your living?” asked Ida, who was a very inquisitive
young lady, and not easily silenced. “What do you do?”
</p>

<p>
Dick blushed violently. At such a table, and in presence of the servant who was
standing at that moment behind his chair, he did not like to say that he was a
shoe-black, although he well knew that there was nothing dishonorable in the
occupation.
</p>

<p>
Mr. Greyson perceived his feelings, and to spare them, said, “You are too
inquisitive, Ida. Sometime Dick may tell you, but you know we don’t talk
of business on Sundays.”
</p>

<p>
Dick in his embarrassment had swallowed a large spoonful of hot soup, which
made him turn red in the face. For the second time, in spite of the prospect of
the best dinner he had ever eaten, he wished himself back in Mott Street. Henry
Fosdick was more easy and unembarrassed than Dick, not having led such a
vagabond and neglected life. But it was to Dick that Ida chiefly directed her
conversation, having apparently taken a fancy to his frank and handsome face. I
believe I have already said that Dick was a very good-looking boy, especially
now since he kept his face clean. He had a frank, honest expression, which
generally won its way to the favor of those with whom he came in contact.
</p>

<p>
Dick got along pretty well at the table by dint of noticing how the rest acted,
but there was one thing he could not manage, eating with his fork, which, by
the way, he thought a very singular arrangement.
</p>

<p>
At length they arose from the table, somewhat to Dick’s relief. Again Ida
devoted herself to the boys, and exhibited a profusely illustrated Bible for
their entertainment. Dick was interested in looking at the pictures, though he
knew very little of their subjects. Henry Fosdick was much better informed, as
might have been expected.
</p>

<p>
When the boys were about to leave the house with Mr. Greyson for the Sunday
school, Ida placed her hand in Dick’s, and said persuasively,
“You’ll come again, Dick, won’t you?”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you,” said Dick, “I’d like to,” and he
could not help thinking Ida the nicest girl he had ever seen.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Mrs. Greyson, hospitably, “we shall be glad to
see you both here again.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you very much,” said Henry Fosdick, gratefully. “We
shall like very much to come.”
</p>

<p>
I will not dwell upon the hour spent in Sunday school, nor upon the remarks of
Mr. Greyson to his class. He found Dick’s ignorance of religious subjects
so great that he was obliged to begin at the beginning with him. Dick was
interested in hearing the children sing, and readily promised to come again the
next Sunday.
</p>

<p>
When the service was over Dick and Henry walked homewards. Dick could not help
letting his thoughts rest on the sweet little girl who had given him so cordial
a welcome, and hoping that he might meet her again.
</p>

<p>
“Mr. Greyson is a nice man,—isn’t he, Dick?” asked
Henry, as they were turning into Mott Street, and were already in sight of
their lodging-house.
</p>

<p>
“Aint he, though?” said Dick. “He treated us just as if we
were young gentlemen.”
</p>

<p>
“Ida seemed to take a great fancy to you.”
</p>

<p>
“She’s a tip-top girl,” said Dick, “but she asked so
many questions that I didn’t know what to say.”
</p>

<p>
He had scarcely finished speaking, when a stone whizzed by his head, and,
turning quickly, he saw Micky Maguire running round the corner of the street
which they had just passed.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap18" id="chap18"></a>CHAPTER XVIII.<br />
MICKY MAGUIRE’S SECOND DEFEAT</h2>

<p>
Dick was no coward. Nor was he in the habit of submitting passively to an
insult. When, therefore, he recognized Micky as his assailant, he instantly
turned and gave chase. Micky anticipated pursuit, and ran at his utmost speed.
It is doubtful if Dick would have overtaken him, but Micky had the ill luck to
trip just as he had entered a narrow alley, and, falling with some violence,
received a sharp blow from the hard stones, which made him scream with pain.
</p>

<p>
“Ow!” he whined. “Don’t you hit a feller when
he’s down.”
</p>

<p>
“What made you fire that stone at me?” demanded our hero, looking
down at the fallen bully.
</p>

<p>
“Just for fun,” said Micky.
</p>

<p>
“It would have been a very agreeable s’prise if it had hit
me,” said Dick. “S’posin’ I fire a rock at you jest for
fun.”
</p>

<p>
“Don’t!” exclaimed Micky, in alarm.
</p>

<p>
“It seems you don’t like agreeable s’prises,” said
Dick, “any more’n the man did what got hooked by a cow one
mornin’, before breakfast. It didn’t improve his appetite
much.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ve most broke my arm,” said Micky, ruefully, rubbing the
affected limb.
</p>

<p>
“If it’s broke you can’t fire no more stones, which is a very
cheerin’ reflection,” said Dick. “Ef you haven’t money
enough to buy a wooden one I’ll lend you a quarter. There’s one
good thing about wooden ones, they aint liable to get cold in winter, which is
another cheerin’ reflection.”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t want none of yer cheerin’ reflections,” said
Micky, sullenly. “Yer company aint wanted here.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you for your polite invitation to leave,” said Dick, bowing
ceremoniously. “I’m willin’ to go, but ef you throw any more
stones at me, Micky Maguire, I’ll hurt you worse than the stones
did.”
</p>

<p>
The only answer made to this warning was a scowl from his fallen opponent. It
was quite evident that Dick had the best of it, and he thought it prudent to
say nothing.
</p>

<p>
“As I’ve got a friend waitin’ outside, I shall have to tear
myself away,” said Dick. “You’d better not throw any more
stones, Micky Maguire, for it don’t seem to agree with your
constitution.”
</p>

<p>
Micky muttered something which Dick did not stay to hear. He backed out of the
alley, keeping a watchful eye on his fallen foe, and rejoined Henry Fosdick,
who was awaiting his return.
</p>

<p>
“Who was it, Dick?” he asked.
</p>

<p>
“A partic’lar friend of mine, Micky Maguire,” said Dick.
“He playfully fired a rock at my head as a mark of his ’fection. He
loves me like a brother, Micky does.”
</p>

<p>
“Rather a dangerous kind of a friend, I should think,” said
Fosdick. “He might have killed you.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ve warned him not to be so ’fectionate another
time,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I know him,” said Henry Fosdick. “He’s at the head of
a gang of boys living at the Five-Points. He threatened to whip me once because
a gentleman employed me to black his boots instead of him.”
</p>

<p>
“He’s been at the Island two or three times for stealing,”
said Dick. “I guess he won’t touch me again. He’d rather get
hold of small boys. If he ever does anything to you, Fosdick, just let me know,
and I’ll give him a thrashing.”
</p>

<p>
Dick was right. Micky Maguire was a bully, and like most bullies did not fancy
tackling boys whose strength was equal or superior to his own. Although he
hated Dick more than ever, because he thought our hero was putting on airs, he
had too lively a remembrance of his strength and courage to venture upon
another open attack. He contented himself, therefore, whenever he met Dick,
with scowling at him. Dick took this very philosophically, remarking that,
“if it was soothin’ to Micky’s feelings, he might go ahead,
as it didn’t hurt him much.”
</p>

<p>
It will not be necessary to chronicle the events of the next few weeks. A new
life had commenced for Dick. He no longer haunted the gallery of the Old
Bowery; and even Tony Pastor’s hospitable doors had lost their old
attractions. He spent two hours every evening in study. His progress was
astonishingly rapid. He was gifted with a natural quickness; and he was
stimulated by the desire to acquire a fair education as a means of
“growin’ up ’spectable,” as he termed it. Much was due
also to the patience and perseverance of Henry Fosdick, who made a capital
teacher.
</p>

<p>
“You’re improving wonderfully, Dick,” said his friend, one
evening, when Dick had read an entire paragraph without a mistake.
</p>

<p>
“Am I?” said Dick, with satisfaction.
</p>

<p>
“Yes. If you’ll buy a writing-book to-morrow, we can begin writing
to-morrow evening.”
</p>

<p>
“What else do you know, Henry?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Arithmetic, and geography, and grammar.”
</p>

<p>
“What a lot you know!” said Dick, admiringly.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t <i>know</i> any of them,” said Fosdick.
“I’ve only studied them. I wish I knew a great deal more.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll be satisfied when I know as much as you,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“It seems a great deal to you now, Dick, but in a few months you’ll
think differently. The more you know, the more you’ll want to
know.”
</p>

<p>
“Then there aint any end to learnin’?” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“No.”
</p>

<p>
“Well,” said Dick, “I guess I’ll be as much as sixty
before I know everything.”
</p>

<p>
“Yes; as old as that, probably,” said Fosdick, laughing.
</p>

<p>
“Anyway, you know too much to be blackin’ boots. Leave that to
ignorant chaps like me.”
</p>

<p>
“You won’t be ignorant long, Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“You’d ought to get into some office or countin’-room.”
</p>

<p>
“I wish I could,” said Fosdick, earnestly. “I don’t
succeed very well at blacking boots. You make a great deal more than I
do.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s cause I aint troubled with bashfulness,” said Dick.
“Bashfulness aint as natural to me as it is to you. I’m always on
hand, as the cat said to the milk. You’d better give up shines, Fosdick,
and give your ’tention to mercantile pursuits.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ve thought of trying to get a place,” said Fosdick;
“but no one would take me with these clothes;” and he directed his
glance to his well-worn suit, which he kept as neat as he could, but which, in
spite of all his care, began to show decided marks of use. There was also here
and there a stain of blacking upon it, which, though an advertisement of his
profession, scarcely added to its good appearance.
</p>

<p>
“I almost wanted to stay at home from Sunday school last Sunday,”
he continued, “because I thought everybody would notice how dirty and
worn my clothes had got to be.”
</p>

<p>
“If my clothes wasn’t two sizes too big for you,” said Dick,
generously, “I’d change. You’d look as if you’d got
into your great-uncle’s suit by mistake.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re very kind, Dick, to think of changing,” said Fosdick,
“for your suit is much better than mine; but I don’t think that
mine would suit you very well. The pants would show a little more of your
ankles than is the fashion, and you couldn’t eat a very hearty dinner
without bursting the buttons off the vest.”
</p>

<p>
“That wouldn’t be very convenient,” said Dick. “I aint
fond of lacin’ to show my elegant figger. But I say,” he added with
a sudden thought, “how much money have we got in the savings’
bank?”
</p>

<p>
Fosdick took a key from his pocket, and went to the drawer in which the
bank-books were kept, and, opening it, brought them out for inspection.
</p>

<p>
It was found that Dick had the sum of eighteen dollars and ninety cents placed
to his credit, while Fosdick had six dollars and forty-five cents. To explain
the large difference, it must be remembered that Dick had deposited five
dollars before Henry deposited anything, being the amount he had received as a
gift from Mr. Whitney.
</p>

<p>
“How much does that make, the lot of it?” asked Dick. “I aint
much on figgers yet, you know.”
</p>

<p>
“It makes twenty-five dollars and thirty-five cents, Dick,” said
his companion, who did not understand the thought which suggested the question.
</p>

<p>
“Take it, and buy some clothes, Henry,” said Dick, shortly.
</p>

<p>
“What, your money too?”
</p>

<p>
“In course.”
</p>

<p>
“No, Dick, you are too generous. I couldn’t think of it. Almost
three-quarters of the money is yours. You must spend it on yourself.”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t need it,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“You may not need it now, but you will some time.”
</p>

<p>
“I shall have some more then.”
</p>

<p>
“That may be; but it wouldn’t be fair for me to use your money,
Dick. I thank you all the same for your kindness.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, I’ll lend it to you, then,” persisted Dick, “and
you can pay me when you get to be a rich merchant.”
</p>

<p>
“But it isn’t likely I ever shall be one.”
</p>

<p>
“How d’you know? I went to a fortun’ teller once, and she
told me I was born under a lucky star with a hard name, and I should have a
rich man for my particular friend, who would make my fortun’. I guess you
are going to be the rich man.”
</p>

<p>
Fosdick laughed, and steadily refused for some time to avail himself of
Dick’s generous proposal; but at length, perceiving that our hero seemed
much disappointed, and would be really glad if his offer were accepted, he
agreed to use as much as might be needful.
</p>

<p>
This at once brought back Dick’s good-humor, and he entered with great
enthusiasm into his friend’s plans.
</p>

<p>
The next day they withdrew the money from the bank, and, when business got a
little slack, in the afternoon set out in search of a clothing store. Dick knew
enough of the city to be able to find a place where a good bargain could be
obtained. He was determined that Fosdick should have a good serviceable suit,
even if it took all the money they had. The result of their search was that for
twenty-three dollars Fosdick obtained a very neat outfit, including a couple of
shirts, a hat, and a pair of shoes, besides a dark mixed suit, which appeared
stout and of good quality.
</p>

<p>
“Shall I send the bundle home?” asked the salesman, impressed by
the off-hand manner in which Dick drew out the money in payment for the
clothes.
</p>

<p>
“Thank you,” said Dick, “you’re very kind, but
I’ll take it home myself, and you can allow me something for my
trouble.”
</p>

<p>
“All right,” said the clerk, laughing; “I’ll allow it
on your next purchase.”
</p>

<p>
Proceeding to their apartment in Mott Street, Fosdick at once tried on his new
suit, and it was found to be an excellent fit. Dick surveyed his new friend
with much satisfaction.
</p>

<p>
“You look like a young gentleman of fortun’,” he said,
“and do credit to your governor.”
</p>

<p>
“I suppose that means you, Dick,” said Fosdick, laughing.
</p>

<p>
“In course it does.”
</p>

<p>
“You should say <i>of</i> course,” said Fosdick, who, in virtue of
his position as Dick’s tutor, ventured to correct his language from time
to time.
</p>

<p>
“How dare you correct your gov’nor?” said Dick, with comic
indignation. “‘I’ll cut you off with a shillin’, you
young dog,’ as the Markis says to his nephew in the play at the Old
Bowery.”
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap19" id="chap19"></a>CHAPTER XIX.<br />
FOSDICK CHANGES HIS BUSINESS</h2>

<p>
Fosdick did not venture to wear his new clothes while engaged in his business.
This he felt would have been wasteful extravagance. About ten o’clock in
the morning, when business slackened, he went home, and dressing himself went
to a hotel where he could see copies of the “Morning Herald” and
“Sun,” and, noting down the places where a boy was wanted, went on
a round of applications. But he found it no easy thing to obtain a place.
Swarms of boys seemed to be out of employment, and it was not unusual to find
from fifty to a hundred applicants for a single place.
</p>

<p>
There was another difficulty. It was generally desired that the boy wanted
should reside with his parents. When Fosdick, on being questioned, revealed the
fact of his having no parents, and being a boy of the street, this was
generally sufficient of itself to insure a refusal. Merchants were afraid to
trust one who had led such a vagabond life. Dick, who was always ready for an
emergency, suggested borrowing a white wig, and passing himself off for
Fosdick’s father or grandfather. But Henry thought this might be rather a
difficult character for our hero to sustain. After fifty applications and as
many failures, Fosdick began to get discouraged. There seemed to be no way out
of his present business, for which he felt unfitted.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know but I shall have to black boots all my life,”
he said, one day, despondently, to Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Keep a stiff upper lip,” said Dick. “By the time you get to
be a gray-headed veteran, you may get a chance to run errands for some big firm
on the Bowery, which is a very cheerin’ reflection.”
</p>

<p>
So Dick by his drollery and perpetual good spirits kept up Fosdick’s
courage.
</p>

<p>
“As for me,” said Dick, “I expect by that time to lay up a
colossal fortun’ out of shines, and live in princely style on the
Avenoo.”
</p>

<p>
But one morning, Fosdick, straying into French’s Hotel, discovered the
following advertisement in the columns of “The Herald,”—
</p>

<p>
“WANTED—A smart, capable boy to run errands, and make himself
generally useful in a hat and cap store. Salary three dollars a week at first.
Inquire at No. — Broadway, after ten o’clock, A.M.”
</p>

<p>
He determined to make application, and, as the City Hall clock just then struck
the hour indicated, lost no time in proceeding to the store, which was only a
few blocks distant from the Astor House. It was easy to find the store, as from
a dozen to twenty boys were already assembled in front of it. They surveyed
each other askance, feeling that they were rivals, and mentally calculating
each other’s chances.
</p>

<p>
“There isn’t much chance for me,” said Fosdick to Dick, who
had accompanied him. “Look at all these boys. Most of them have good
homes, I suppose, and good recommendations, while I have nobody to refer
to.”
</p>

<p>
“Go ahead,” said Dick. “Your chance is as good as
anybody’s.”
</p>

<p>
While this was passing between Dick and his companion, one of the boys, a
rather supercilious-looking young gentleman, genteelly dressed, and evidently
having a very high opinion of his dress and himself turned suddenly to Dick,
and remarked,—
</p>

<p>
“I’ve seen you before.”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, have you?” said Dick, whirling round; “then
p’r’aps you’d like to see me behind.”
</p>

<p>
At this unexpected answer all the boys burst into a laugh with the exception of
the questioner, who, evidently, considered that Dick had been disrespectful.
</p>

<p>
“I’ve seen you somewhere,” he said, in a surly tone,
correcting himself.
</p>

<p>
“Most likely you have,” said Dick. “That’s where I
generally keep myself.”
</p>

<p>
There was another laugh at the expense of Roswell Crawford, for that was the
name of the young aristocrat. But he had his revenge ready. No boy relishes
being an object of ridicule, and it was with a feeling of satisfaction that he
retorted,—
</p>

<p>
“I know you for all your impudence. You’re nothing but a
boot-black.”
</p>

<p>
This information took the boys who were standing around by surprise, for Dick
was well-dressed, and had none of the implements of his profession with him.
</p>

<p>
“S’pose I be,” said Dick. “Have you got any
objection?”
</p>

<p>
“Not at all,” said Roswell, curling his lip; “only
you’d better stick to blacking boots, and not try to get into a
store.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you for your kind advice,” said Dick. “Is it
gratooitous, or do you expect to be paid for it?”
</p>

<p>
“You’re an impudent fellow.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s a very cheerin’ reflection,” said Dick,
good-naturedly.
</p>

<p>
“Do you expect to get this place when there’s gentlemen’s
sons applying for it? A boot-black in a store! That would be a good
joke.”
</p>

<p>
Boys as well as men are selfish, and, looking upon Dick as a possible rival,
the boys who listened seemed disposed to take the same view of the situation.
</p>

<p>
“That’s what I say,” said one of them, taking sides with
Roswell.
</p>

<p>
“Don’t trouble yourselves,” said Dick. “I aint
agoin’ to cut you out. I can’t afford to give up a independent and
loocrative purfession for a salary of three dollars a week.”
</p>

<p>
“Hear him talk!” said Roswell Crawford, with an unpleasant sneer.
“If you are not trying to get the place, what are you here for?”
</p>

<p>
“I came with a friend of mine,” said Dick, indicating Fosdick,
“who’s goin’ in for the situation.”
</p>

<p>
“Is he a boot-black, too?” demanded Roswell, superciliously.
</p>

<p>
“He!” retorted Dick, loftily. “Didn’t you know his
father was a member of Congress, and intimately acquainted with all the biggest
men in the State?”
</p>

<p>
The boys surveyed Fosdick as if they did not quite know whether to credit this
statement, which, for the credit of Dick’s veracity, it will be observed
he did not assert, but only propounded in the form of a question. There was no
time for comment, however, as just then the proprietor of the store came to the
door, and, casting his eyes over the waiting group, singled out Roswell
Crawford, and asked him to enter.
</p>

<p>
“Well, my lad, how old are you?”
</p>

<p>
“Fourteen years old,” said Roswell, consequentially.
</p>

<p>
“Are your parents living?”
</p>

<p>
“Only my mother. My father is dead. He was a gentleman,” he added,
complacently.
</p>

<p>
“Oh, was he?” said the shop-keeper. “Do you live in the
city?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir. In Clinton Place.”
</p>

<p>
“Have you ever been in a situation before?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir,” said Roswell, a little reluctantly.
</p>

<p>
“Where was it?”
</p>

<p>
“In an office on Dey Street.”
</p>

<p>
“How long were you there?”
</p>

<p>
“A week.”
</p>

<p>
“It seems to me that was a short time. Why did you not stay
longer?”
</p>

<p>
“Because,” said Roswell, loftily, “the man wanted me to get
to the office at eight o’clock, and make the fire. I’m a
gentleman’s son, and am not used to such dirty work.”
</p>

<p>
“Indeed!” said the shop-keeper. “Well, young gentleman, you
may step aside a few minutes. I will speak with some of the other boys before
making my selection.”
</p>

<p>
Several other boys were called in and questioned. Roswell stood by and listened
with an air of complacency. He could not help thinking his chances the best.
“The man can see I’m a gentleman, and will do credit to his
store,” he thought.
</p>

<p>
At length it came to Fosdick’s turn. He entered with no very sanguine
anticipations of success. Unlike Roswell, he set a very low estimate upon his
qualifications when compared with those of other applicants. But his modest
bearing, and quiet, gentlemanly manner, entirely free from pretension,
prepossessed the shop-keeper, who was a sensible man, in his favor.
</p>

<p>
“Do you reside in the city?” he asked.
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir,” said Henry.
</p>

<p>
“What is your age?”
</p>

<p>
“Twelve.”
</p>

<p>
“Have you ever been in any situation?”
</p>

<p>
“No, sir.”
</p>

<p>
“I should like to see a specimen of your handwriting. Here, take the pen
and write your name.”
</p>

<p>
Henry Fosdick had a very handsome handwriting for a boy of his age, while
Roswell, who had submitted to the same test, could do little more than scrawl.
</p>

<p>
“Do you reside with your parents?”
</p>

<p>
“No, sir, they are dead.”
</p>

<p>
“Where do you live, then?”
</p>

<p>
“In Mott Street.”
</p>

<p>
Roswell curled his lip when this name was pronounced, for Mott Street, as my
New York readers know, is in the immediate neighborhood of the Five-Points, and
very far from a fashionable locality.
</p>

<p>
“Have you any testimonials to present?” asked Mr. Henderson, for
that was his name.
</p>

<p>
Fosdick hesitated. This was the question which he had foreseen would give him
trouble.
</p>

<p>
But at this moment it happened most opportunely that Mr. Greyson entered the
shop with the intention of buying a hat.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Fosdick, promptly; “I will refer to this
gentleman.”
</p>

<p>
“How do you do, Fosdick?” asked Mr. Greyson, noticing him for the
first time. “How do you happen to be here?”
</p>

<p>
“I am applying for a place, sir,” said Fosdick. “May I refer
the gentleman to you?”
</p>

<p>
“Certainly, I shall be glad to speak a good word for you. Mr. Henderson,
this is a member of my Sunday-school class, of whose good qualities and good
abilities I can speak confidently.”
</p>

<p>
“That will be sufficient,” said the shop-keeper, who knew Mr.
Greyson’s high character and position. “He could have no better
recommendation. You may come to the store to-morrow morning at half past seven
o’clock. The pay will be three dollars a week for the first six months.
If I am satisfied with you, I shall then raise it to five dollars.”
</p>

<p>
The other boys looked disappointed, but none more so than Roswell Crawford. He
would have cared less if any one else had obtained the situation; but for a boy
who lived in Mott Street to be preferred to him, a gentleman’s son, he
considered indeed humiliating. In a spirit of petty spite, he was tempted to
say,
</p>

<p>
“He’s a boot-black. Ask him if he isn’t.”
</p>

<p>
“He’s an honest and intelligent lad,” said Mr. Greyson.
“As for you, young man, I only hope you have one-half his good
qualities.”
</p>

<p>
Roswell Crawford left the store in disgust, and the other unsuccessful
applicants with him.
</p>

<p>
“What luck, Fosdick?” asked Dick, eagerly, as his friend came out
of the store.
</p>

<p>
“I’ve got the place,” said Fosdick, in accents of
satisfaction; “but it was only because Mr. Greyson spoke up for
me.”
</p>

<p>
“He’s a trump,” said Dick, enthusiastically.
</p>

<p>
The gentleman, so denominated, came out before the boys went away, and spoke
with them kindly.
</p>

<p>
Both Dick and Henry were highly pleased at the success of the application. The
pay would indeed be small, but, expended economically, Fosdick thought he could
get along on it, receiving his room rent, as before, in return for his services
as Dick’s private tutor. Dick determined, as soon as his education would
permit, to follow his companion’s example.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know as you’ll be willin’ to room with a
boot-black,” he said, to Henry, “now you’re goin’ into
business.”
</p>

<p>
“I couldn’t room with a better friend, Dick,” said Fosdick,
affectionately, throwing his arm round our hero. “When we part,
it’ll be because you wish it.”
</p>

<p>
So Fosdick entered upon a new career.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap20" id="chap20"></a>CHAPTER XX.<br />
NINE MONTHS LATER</h2>

<p>
The next morning Fosdick rose early, put on his new suit, and, after getting
breakfast, set out for the Broadway store in which he had obtained a position.
He left his little blacking-box in the room.
</p>

<p>
“It’ll do to brush my own shoes,” he said. “Who knows
but I may have to come back to it again?”
</p>

<p>
“No danger,” said Dick; “I’ll take care of the feet,
and you’ll have to look after the heads, now you’re in a
hat-store.”
</p>

<p>
“I wish you had a place too,” said Fosdick.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know enough yet,” said Dick. “Wait till
I’ve gradooated.”
</p>

<p>
“And can put A.B. after your name.”
</p>

<p>
“What’s that?”
</p>

<p>
“It stands for Bachelor of Arts. It’s a degree that students get
when they graduate from college.”
</p>

<p>
“Oh,” said Dick, “I didn’t know but it meant A
Boot-black. I can put that after my name now. Wouldn’t Dick Hunter, A.B.,
sound tip-top?”
</p>

<p>
“I must be going,” said Fosdick. “It won’t do for me to
be late the very first morning.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s the difference between you and me,” said Dick.
“I’m my own boss, and there aint no one to find fault with me if
I’m late. But I might as well be goin’ too. There’s a gent as
comes down to his store pretty early that generally wants a shine.”
</p>

<p>
The two boys parted at the Park. Fosdick crossed it, and proceeded to the
hat-store, while Dick, hitching up his pants, began to look about him for a
customer. It was seldom that Dick had to wait long. He was always on the alert,
and if there was any business to do he was always sure to get his share of it.
He had now a stronger inducement than ever to attend strictly to business; his
little stock of money in the savings bank having been nearly exhausted by his
liberality to his room-mate. He determined to be as economical as possible, and
moreover to study as hard as he could, that he might be able to follow
Fosdick’s example, and obtain a place in a store or counting-room. As
there were no striking incidents occurring in our hero’s history within
the next nine months, I propose to pass over that period, and recount the
progress he made in that time.
</p>

<p>
Fosdick was still at the hat-store, having succeeded in giving perfect
satisfaction to Mr. Henderson. His wages had just been raised to five dollars a
week. He and Dick still kept house together at Mrs. Mooney’s
lodging-house, and lived very frugally, so that both were able to save up
money. Dick had been unusually successful in business. He had several regular
patrons, who had been drawn to him by his ready wit, and quick humor, and from
two of them he had received presents of clothing, which had saved him any
expense on that score. His income had averaged quite seven dollars a week in
addition to this. Of this amount he was now obliged to pay one dollar weekly
for the room which he and Fosdick occupied, but he was still able to save one
half the remainder. At the end of nine months therefore, or thirty-nine weeks,
it will be seen that he had accumulated no less a sum than one hundred and
seventeen dollars. Dick may be excused for feeling like a capitalist when he
looked at the long row of deposits in his little bank-book. There were other
boys in the same business who had earned as much money, but they had had little
care for the future, and spent as they went along, so that few could boast a
bank-account, however small.
</p>

<p>
“You’ll be a rich man some time, Dick,” said Henry Fosdick,
one evening.
</p>

<p>
“And live on Fifth Avenoo,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Perhaps so. Stranger things have happened.”
</p>

<p>
“Well,” said Dick, “if such a misfortin’ should come
upon me I should bear it like a man. When you see a Fifth Avenoo manshun for
sale for a hundred and seventeen dollars, just let me know and I’ll buy
it as an investment.”
</p>

<p>
“Two hundred and fifty years ago you might have bought one for that
price, probably. Real estate wasn’t very high among the Indians.”
</p>

<p>
“Just my luck,” said Dick; “I was born too late. I’d
orter have been an Indian, and lived in splendor on my present capital.”
</p>

<p>
“I’m afraid you’d have found your present business rather
unprofitable at that time.”
</p>

<p>
But Dick had gained something more valuable than money. He had studied
regularly every evening, and his improvement had been marvellous. He could now
read well, write a fair hand, and had studied arithmetic as far as Interest.
Besides this he had obtained some knowledge of grammar and geography. If some
of my boy readers, who have been studying for years, and got no farther than
this, should think it incredible that Dick, in less than a year, and studying
evenings only, should have accomplished it, they must remember that our hero
was very much in earnest in his desire to improve. He knew that, in order to
grow up respectable, he must be well advanced, and he was willing to work. But
then the reader must not forget that Dick was naturally a smart boy. His street
education had sharpened his faculties, and taught him to rely upon himself. He
knew that it would take him a long time to reach the goal which he had set
before him, and he had patience to keep on trying. He knew that he had only
himself to depend upon, and he determined to make the most of himself,—a
resolution which is the secret of success in nine cases out of ten.
</p>

<p>
“Dick,” said Fosdick, one evening, after they had completed their
studies, “I think you’ll have to get another teacher soon.”
</p>

<p>
“Why?” asked Dick, in some surprise. “Have you been offered a
more loocrative position?”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Fosdick, “but I find I have taught you all I know
myself. You are now as good a scholar as I am.”
</p>

<p>
“Is that true?” said Dick, eagerly, a flush of gratification
coloring his brown cheek.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Fosdick. “You’ve made wonderful progress. I
propose, now that evening schools have begun, that we join one, and study
together through the winter.”
</p>

<p>
“All right,” said Dick. “I’d be willin’ to go
now; but when I first began to study I was ashamed to have anybody know that I
was so ignorant. Do you really mean, Fosdick, that I know as much as
you?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, Dick, it’s true.”
</p>

<p>
“Then I’ve got you to thank for it,” said Dick, earnestly.
“You’ve made me what I am.”
</p>

<p>
“And haven’t you paid me, Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“By payin’ the room-rent,” said Dick, impulsively.
“What’s that? It isn’t half enough. I wish you’d take
half my money; you deserve it.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you, Dick, but you’re too generous. You’ve more than
paid me. Who was it took my part when all the other boys imposed upon me? And
who gave me money to buy clothes, and so got me my situation?”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, that’s nothing!” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“It’s a great deal, Dick. I shall never forget it. But now it seems
to me you might try to get a situation yourself.”
</p>

<p>
“Do I know enough?”
</p>

<p>
“You know as much as I do.”
</p>

<p>
“Then I’ll try,” said Dick, decidedly.
</p>

<p>
“I wish there was a place in our store,” said Fosdick. “It
would be pleasant for us to be together.”
</p>

<p>
“Never mind,” said Dick; “there’ll be plenty of other
chances. P’r’aps A. T. Stewart might like a partner. I
wouldn’t ask more’n a quarter of the profits.”
</p>

<p>
“Which would be a very liberal proposal on your part,” said
Fosdick, smiling. “But perhaps Mr. Stewart might object to a partner
living on Mott Street.”
</p>

<p>
“I’d just as lieves move to Fifth Avenoo,” said Dick.
“I aint got no prejudices in favor of Mott Street.”
</p>

<p>
“Nor I,” said Fosdick, “and in fact I have been thinking it
might be a good plan for us to move as soon as we could afford. Mrs. Mooney
doesn’t keep the room quite so neat as she might.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick. “She aint got no prejudices against dirt.
Look at that towel.”
</p>

<p>
Dick held up the article indicated, which had now seen service nearly a week,
and hard service at that,—Dick’s avocation causing him to be rather
hard on towels.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Fosdick, “I’ve got about tired of it. I
guess we can find some better place without having to pay much more. When we
move, you must let me pay my share of the rent.”
</p>

<p>
“We’ll see about that,” said Dick. “Do you propose to
move to Fifth Avenoo?”
</p>

<p>
“Not just at present, but to some more agreeable neighborhood than this.
We’ll wait till you get a situation, and then we can decide.”
</p>

<p>
A few days later, as Dick was looking about for customers in the neighborhood
of the Park, his attention was drawn to a fellow boot-black, a boy about a year
younger than himself, who appeared to have been crying.
</p>

<p>
“What’s the matter, Tom?” asked Dick. “Haven’t
you had luck to-day?”
</p>

<p>
“Pretty good,” said the boy; “but we’re havin’
hard times at home. Mother fell last week and broke her arm, and to-morrow
we’ve got to pay the rent, and if we don’t the landlord says
he’ll turn us out.”
</p>

<p>
“Haven’t you got anything except what you earn?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Tom, “not now. Mother used to earn three or four
dollars a week; but she can’t do nothin’ now, and my little sister
and brother are too young.”
</p>

<p>
Dick had quick sympathies. He had been so poor himself, and obliged to submit
to so many privations that he knew from personal experience how hard it was.
Tom Wilkins he knew as an excellent boy who never squandered his money, but
faithfully carried it home to his mother. In the days of his own extravagance
and shiftlessness he had once or twice asked Tom to accompany him to the Old
Bowery or Tony Pastor’s, but Tom had always steadily refused.
</p>

<p>
“I’m sorry for you, Tom,” he said. “How much do you owe
for rent?”
</p>

<p>
“Two weeks now,” said Tom.
</p>

<p>
“How much is it a week?”
</p>

<p>
“Two dollars a week—that makes four.”
</p>

<p>
“Have you got anything towards it?”
</p>

<p>
“No; I’ve had to spend all my money for food for mother and the
rest of us. I’ve had pretty hard work to do that. I don’t know what
we’ll do. I haven’t any place to go to, and I’m afraid
mother’ll get cold in her arm.”
</p>

<p>
“Can’t you borrow the money somewhere?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
Tom shook his head despondingly.
</p>

<p>
“All the people I know are as poor as I am,” said he.
“They’d help me if they could, but it’s hard work for them to
get along themselves.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll tell you what, Tom,” said Dick, impulsively,
“I’ll stand your friend.”
</p>

<p>
“Have you got any money?” asked Tom, doubtfully.
</p>

<p>
“Got any money!” repeated Dick. “Don’t you know that I
run a bank on my own account? How much is it you need?”
</p>

<p>
“Four dollars,” said Tom. “If we don’t pay that before
to-morrow night, out we go. You haven’t got as much as that, have
you?”
</p>

<p>
“Here are three dollars,” said Dick, drawing out his pocket-book.
“I’ll let you have the rest to-morrow, and maybe a little
more.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re a right down good fellow, Dick,” said Tom; “but
won’t you want it yourself?”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, I’ve got some more,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Maybe I’ll never be able to pay you.”
</p>

<p>
“S’pose you don’t,” said Dick; “I guess I
won’t fail.”
</p>

<p>
“I won’t forget it, Dick. I hope I’ll be able to do
somethin’ for you sometime.”
</p>

<p>
“All right,” said Dick. “I’d ought to help you. I
haven’t got no mother to look out for. I wish I had.”
</p>

<p>
There was a tinge of sadness in his tone, as he pronounced the last four words;
but Dick’s temperament was sanguine, and he never gave way to unavailing
sadness. Accordingly he began to whistle as he turned away, only adding,
“I’ll see you to-morrow, Tom.”
</p>

<p>
The three dollars which Dick had handed to Tom Wilkins were his savings for the
present week. It was now Thursday afternoon. His rent, which amounted to a
dollar, he expected to save out of the earnings of Friday and Saturday. In
order to give Tom the additional assistance he had promised, Dick would be
obliged to have recourse to his bank-savings. He would not have ventured to
trench upon it for any other reason but this. But he felt that it would be
selfish to allow Tom and his mother to suffer when he had it in his power to
relieve them. But Dick was destined to be surprised, and that in a disagreeable
manner, when he reached home.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap21" id="chap21"></a>CHAPTER XXI.<br />
DICK LOSES HIS BANK-BOOK</h2>

<p>
It was hinted at the close of the last chapter that Dick was destined to be
disagreeably surprised on reaching home.
</p>

<p>
Having agreed to give further assistance to Tom Wilkins, he was naturally led
to go to the drawer where he and Fosdick kept their bank-books. To his surprise
and uneasiness <i>the drawer proved to be empty!</i>
</p>

<p>
“Come here a minute, Fosdick,” he said.
</p>

<p>
“What’s the matter, Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“I can’t find my bank-book, nor yours either. What’s
’come of them?”
</p>

<p>
“I took mine with me this morning, thinking I might want to put in a
little more money. I’ve got it in my pocket, now.”
</p>

<p>
“But where’s mine?” asked Dick, perplexed.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know. I saw it in the drawer when I took mine this
morning.”
</p>

<p>
“Are you sure?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, positive, for I looked into it to see how much you had got.”
</p>

<p>
“Did you lock it again?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Yes; didn’t you have to unlock it just now?”
</p>

<p>
“So I did,” said Dick. “But it’s gone now. Somebody
opened it with a key that fitted the lock, and then locked it
ag’in.”
</p>

<p>
“That must have been the way.”
</p>

<p>
“It’s rather hard on a feller,” said Dick, who, for the first
time since we became acquainted with him, began to feel down-hearted.
</p>

<p>
“Don’t give it up, Dick. You haven’t lost the money, only the
bank-book.”
</p>

<p>
“Aint that the same thing?”
</p>

<p>
“No. You can go to the bank to-morrow morning, as soon as it opens, and
tell them you have lost the book, and ask them not to pay the money to any one
except yourself.”
</p>

<p>
“So I can,” said Dick, brightening up. “That is, if the thief
hasn’t been to the bank to-day.”
</p>

<p>
“If he has, they might detect him by his handwriting.”
</p>

<p>
“I’d like to get hold of the one that stole it,” said Dick,
indignantly. “I’d give him a good lickin’.”
</p>

<p>
“It must have been somebody in the house. Suppose we go and see Mrs.
Mooney. She may know whether anybody came into our room to-day.”
</p>

<p>
The two boys went downstairs, and knocked at the door of a little back
sitting-room where Mrs. Mooney generally spent her evenings. It was a shabby
little room, with a threadbare carpet on the floor, the walls covered with a
certain large-figured paper, patches of which had been stripped off here and
there, exposing the plaster, the remainder being defaced by dirt and grease.
But Mrs. Mooney had one of those comfortable temperaments which are tolerant of
dirt, and didn’t mind it in the least. She was seated beside a small pine
work-table, industriously engaged in mending stockings.
</p>

<p>
“Good-evening, Mrs. Mooney,” said Fosdick, politely.
</p>

<p>
“Good-evening,” said the landlady. “Sit down, if you can find
chairs. I’m hard at work as you see, but a poor lone widder can’t
afford to be idle.”
</p>

<p>
“We can’t stop long, Mrs. Mooney, but my friend here has had
something taken from his room to-day, and we thought we’d come and see
you about it.”
</p>

<p>
“What is it?” asked the landlady. “You don’t think
I’d take anything? If I am poor, it’s an honest name I’ve
always had, as all my lodgers can testify.”
</p>

<p>
“Certainly not, Mrs. Mooney; but there are others in the house that may
not be honest. My friend has lost his bank-book. It was safe in the drawer this
morning, but to-night it is not to be found.”
</p>

<p>
“How much money was there in it?” asked Mrs. Mooney.
</p>

<p>
“Over a hundred dollars,” said Fosdick.
</p>

<p>
“It was my whole fortun’,” said Dick. “I was
goin’ to buy a house next year.”
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Mooney was evidently surprised to learn the extent of Dick’s wealth,
and was disposed to regard him with increased respect.
</p>

<p>
“Was the drawer locked?” she asked.
</p>

<p>
“Yes.”
</p>

<p>
“Then it couldn’t have been Bridget. I don’t think she has
any keys.”
</p>

<p>
“She wouldn’t know what a bank-book was,” said Fosdick.
“You didn’t see any of the lodgers go into our room to-day, did
you?”
</p>

<p>
“I shouldn’t wonder if it was Jim Travis,” said Mrs. Mooney,
suddenly.
</p>

<p>
This James Travis was a bar-tender in a low groggery in Mulberry Street, and
had been for a few weeks an inmate of Mrs. Mooney’s lodging-house. He was
a coarse-looking fellow who, from his appearance, evidently patronized
liberally the liquor he dealt out to others. He occupied a room opposite
Dick’s, and was often heard by the two boys reeling upstairs in a state
of intoxication, uttering shocking oaths.
</p>

<p>
This Travis had made several friendly overtures to Dick and his room-mate, and
had invited them to call round at the bar-room where he tended, and take
something. But this invitation had never been accepted, partly because the boys
were better engaged in the evening, and partly because neither of them had
taken a fancy to Mr. Travis; which certainly was not strange, for nature had
not gifted him with many charms, either of personal appearance or manners. The
rejection of his friendly proffers had caused him to take a dislike to Dick and
Henry, whom he considered stiff and unsocial.
</p>

<p>
“What makes you think it was Travis?” asked Fosdick. “He
isn’t at home in the daytime.”
</p>

<p>
“But he was to-day. He said he had got a bad cold, and had to come home
for a clean handkerchief.”
</p>

<p>
“Did you see him?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Mrs. Mooney. “Bridget was hanging out clothes,
and I went to the door to let him in.”
</p>

<p>
“I wonder if he had a key that would fit our drawer,” said Fosdick.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Mrs. Mooney. “The bureaus in the two rooms are
just alike. I got ’em at auction, and most likely the locks is the
same.”
</p>

<p>
“It must have been he,” said Dick, looking towards Fosdick.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Fosdick, “it looks like it.”
</p>

<p>
“What’s to be done? That’s what I’d like to
know,” said Dick. “Of course he’ll say he hasn’t got
it; and he won’t be such a fool as to leave it in his room.”
</p>

<p>
“If he hasn’t been to the bank, it’s all right,” said
Fosdick. “You can go there the first thing to-morrow morning, and stop
their paying any money on it.”
</p>

<p>
“But I can’t get any money on it myself,” said Dick. “I
told Tom Wilkins I’d let him have some more money to-morrow, or his sick
mother’ll have to turn out of their lodgin’s.”
</p>

<p>
“How much money were you going to give him?”
</p>

<p>
“I gave him three dollars to-day, and was goin’ to give him two
dollars to-morrow.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ve got the money, Dick. I didn’t go to the bank this
morning.”
</p>

<p>
“All right. I’ll take it, and pay you back next week.”
</p>

<p>
“No, Dick; if you’ve given three dollars, you must let me give
two.”
</p>

<p>
“No, Fosdick, I’d rather give the whole. You know I’ve got
more money than you. No, I haven’t, either,” said Dick, the memory
of his loss flashing upon him. “I thought I was rich this morning, but
now I’m in destitoot circumstances.”
</p>

<p>
“Cheer up, Dick; you’ll get your money back.”
</p>

<p>
“I hope so,” said our hero, rather ruefully.
</p>

<p>
The fact was, that our friend Dick was beginning to feel what is so often
experienced by men who do business of a more important character and on a
larger scale than he, the bitterness of a reverse of circumstances. With one
hundred dollars and over carefully laid away in the savings bank, he had felt
quite independent. Wealth is comparative, and Dick probably felt as rich as
many men who are worth a hundred thousand dollars. He was beginning to feel the
advantages of his steady self-denial, and to experience the pleasures of
property. Not that Dick was likely to be unduly attached to money. Let it be
said to his credit that it had never given him so much satisfaction as when it
enabled him to help Tom Wilkins in his trouble.
</p>

<p>
Besides this, there was another thought that troubled him. When he obtained a
place he could not expect to receive as much as he was now making from blacking
boots,—probably not more than three dollars a week,—while his
expenses without clothing would amount to four dollars. To make up the
deficiency he had confidently relied upon his savings, which would be
sufficient to carry him along for a year, if necessary. If he should not
recover his money, he would be compelled to continue a boot-black for at least
six months longer; and this was rather a discouraging reflection. On the whole
it is not to be wondered at that Dick felt unusually sober this evening, and
that neither of the boys felt much like studying.
</p>

<p>
The two boys consulted as to whether it would be best to speak to Travis about
it. It was not altogether easy to decide. Fosdick was opposed to it.
</p>

<p>
“It will only put him on his guard,” said he, “and I
don’t see as it will do any good. Of course he will deny it. We’d
better keep quiet, and watch him, and, by giving notice at the bank, we can
make sure that he doesn’t get any money on it. If he does present himself
at the bank, they will know at once that he is a thief, and he can be
arrested.”
</p>

<p>
This view seemed reasonable, and Dick resolved to adopt it. On the whole, he
began to think prospects were brighter than he had at first supposed, and his
spirits rose a little.
</p>

<p>
“How’d he know I had any bank-book? That’s what I can’t
make out,” he said.
</p>

<p>
“Don’t you remember?” said Fosdick, after a moment’s
thought, “we were speaking of our savings, two or three evenings
since?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Our door was a little open at the time, and I heard somebody come
upstairs, and stop a minute in front of it. It must have been Jim Travis. In
that way he probably found out about your money, and took the opportunity
to-day to get hold of it.”
</p>

<p>
This might or might not be the correct explanation. At all events it seemed
probable.
</p>

<p>
The boys were just on the point of going to bed, later in the evening, when a
knock was heard at the door, and, to their no little surprise, their neighbor,
Jim Travis, proved to be the caller. He was a sallow-complexioned young man,
with dark hair and bloodshot eyes.
</p>

<p>
He darted a quick glance from one to the other as he entered, which did not
escape the boys’ notice.
</p>

<p>
“How are ye, to-night?” he said, sinking into one of the two chairs
with which the room was scantily furnished.
</p>

<p>
“Jolly,” said Dick. “How are you?”
</p>

<p>
“Tired as a dog,” was the reply. “Hard work and poor pay;
that’s the way with me. I wanted to go to the theater, to-night, but I
was hard up, and couldn’t raise the cash.”
</p>

<p>
Here he darted another quick glance at the boys; but neither betrayed anything.
</p>

<p>
“You don’t go out much, do you?” he said
</p>

<p>
“Not much,” said Fosdick. “We spend our evenings in
study.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s precious slow,” said Travis, rather contemptuously.
“What’s the use of studying so much? You don’t expect to be a
lawyer, do you, or anything of that sort?”
</p>

<p>
“Maybe,” said Dick. “I haven’t made up my mind yet. If
my feller-citizens should want me to go to Congress some time, I
shouldn’t want to disapp’int ’em; and then readin’ and
writin’ might come handy.”
</p>

<p>
“Well,” said Travis, rather abruptly, “I’m tired and I
guess I’ll turn in.”
</p>

<p>
“Good-night,” said Fosdick.
</p>

<p>
The boys looked at each other as their visitor left the room.
</p>

<p>
“He came in to see if we’d missed the bank-book,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“And to turn off suspicion from himself, by letting us know he had no
money,” added Fosdick.
</p>

<p>
“That’s so,” said Dick. “I’d like to have
searched them pockets of his.”
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap22" id="chap22"></a>CHAPTER XXII.<br />
TRACKING THE THIEF</h2>

<p>
Fosdick was right in supposing that Jim Travis had stolen the bank-book. He was
also right in supposing that that worthy young man had come to the knowledge of
Dick’s savings by what he had accidentally overheard. Now, Travis, like a
very large number of young men of his class, was able to dispose of a larger
amount of money than he was able to earn. Moreover, he had no great fancy for
work at all, and would have been glad to find some other way of obtaining money
enough to pay his expenses. He had recently received a letter from an old
companion, who had strayed out to California, and going at once to the mines
had been lucky enough to get possession of a very remunerative claim. He wrote
to Travis that he had already realized two thousand dollars from it, and
expected to make his fortune within six months.
</p>

<p>
Two thousand dollars! This seemed to Travis a very large sum, and quite dazzled
his imagination. He was at once inflamed with the desire to go out to
California and try his luck. In his present situation he only received thirty
dollars a month, which was probably all that his services were worth, but went
a very little way towards gratifying his expensive tastes. Accordingly he
determined to take the next steamer to the land of gold, if he could possibly
manage to get money enough to pay the passage.
</p>

<p>
The price of a steerage passage at that time was seventy-five
dollars,—not a large sum, certainly,—but it might as well have been
seventy-five hundred for any chance James Travis had of raising the amount at
present. His available funds consisted of precisely two dollars and a quarter;
of which sum, one dollar and a half was due to his washerwoman. This, however,
would not have troubled Travis much, and he would conveniently have forgotten
all about it; but, even leaving this debt unpaid, the sum at his command would
not help him materially towards paying his passage money.
</p>

<p>
Travis applied for help to two or three of his companions; but they were all of
that kind who never keep an account with savings banks, but carry all their
spare cash about with them. One of these friends offered to lend him
thirty-seven cents, and another a dollar; but neither of these offers seemed to
encourage him much. He was about giving up his project in despair, when he
learned, accidentally, as we have already said, the extent of Dick’s
savings.
</p>

<p>
One hundred and seventeen dollars! Why, that would not only pay his passage,
but carry him up to the mines, after he had arrived in San Francisco. He could
not help thinking it over, and the result of this thinking was that he
determined to borrow it of Dick without leave. Knowing that neither of the boys
were in their room in the daytime, he came back in the course of the morning,
and, being admitted by Mrs. Mooney herself, said, by way of accounting for his
presence, that he had a cold, and had come back for a handkerchief. The
landlady suspected nothing, and, returning at once to her work in the kitchen,
left the coast clear.
</p>

<p>
Travis at once entered Dick’s room, and, as there seemed to be no other
place for depositing money, tried the bureau-drawers. They were all readily
opened, except one, which proved to be locked. This he naturally concluded must
contain the money, and going back to his own chamber for the key of the bureau,
tried it on his return, and found to his satisfaction that it would fit. When
he discovered the bank-book, his joy was mingled with disappointment. He had
expected to find bank-bills instead. This would have saved all further trouble,
and would have been immediately available. Obtaining money at the savings bank
would involve fresh risk. Travis hesitated whether to take it or not; but
finally decided that it would be worth the trouble and hazard.
</p>

<p>
He accordingly slipped the book into his pocket, locked the drawer again, and,
forgetting all about the handkerchief for which he had come home went
downstairs, and into the street.
</p>

<p>
There would have been time to go to the savings bank that day, but Travis had
already been absent from his place of business some time, and did not venture
to take the additional time required. Besides, not being very much used to
savings banks, never having had occasion to use them, he thought it would be
more prudent to look over the rules and regulations, and see if he could not
get some information as to the way he ought to proceed. So the day passed, and
Dick’s money was left in safety at the bank.
</p>

<p>
In the evening, it occurred to Travis that it might be well to find out whether
Dick had discovered his loss. This reflection it was that induced the visit
which is recorded at the close of the last chapter. The result was that he was
misled by the boys’ silence on the subject, and concluded that nothing
had yet been discovered.
</p>

<p>
“Good!” thought Travis, with satisfaction. “If they
don’t find out for twenty-four hours, it’ll be too late, then, and
I shall be all right.”
</p>

<p>
There being a possibility of the loss being discovered before the boys went out
in the morning, Travis determined to see them at that time, and judge whether
such was the case. He waited, therefore, until he heard the boys come out, and
then opened his own door.
</p>

<p>
“Morning, gents,” said he, sociably. “Going to
business?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick. “I’m afraid my clerks’ll be
lazy if I aint on hand.”
</p>

<p>
“Good joke!” said Travis. “If you pay good wages, I’d
like to speak for a place.”
</p>

<p>
“I pay all I get myself,” said Dick. “How’s business
with you?”
</p>

<p>
“So so. Why don’t you call round, some time?”
</p>

<p>
“All my evenin’s is devoted to literatoor and science,” said
Dick. “Thank you all the same.”
</p>

<p>
“Where do you hang out?” inquired Travis, in choice language,
addressing Fosdick.
</p>

<p>
“At Henderson’s hat and cap store, on Broadway.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll look in upon you some time when I want a tile,” said
Travis. “I suppose you sell cheaper to your friends.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll be as reasonable as I can,” said Fosdick, not very
cordially; for he did not much fancy having it supposed by his employer that
such a disreputable-looking person as Travis was a friend of his.
</p>

<p>
However, Travis had no idea of showing himself at the Broadway store, and only
said this by way of making conversation, and encouraging the boys to be social.
</p>

<p>
“You haven’t any of you gents seen a pearl-handled knife, have
you?” he asked.
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Fosdick; “have you lost one?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Travis, with unblushing falsehood. “I left it on
my bureau a day or two since. I’ve missed one or two other little
matters. Bridget don’t look to me any too honest. Likely she’s got
’em.”
</p>

<p>
“What are you goin’ to do about it?” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I’ll keep mum unless I lose something more, and then I’ll
kick up a row, and haul her over the coals. Have you missed anything?”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Fosdick, answering for himself, as he could do without
violating the truth.
</p>

<p>
There was a gleam of satisfaction in the eyes of Travis, as he heard this.
</p>

<p>
“They haven’t found it out yet,” he thought.
“I’ll bag the money to-day, and then they may whistle for
it.”
</p>

<p>
Having no further object to serve in accompanying the boys, he bade them
good-morning, and turned down another street.
</p>

<p>
“He’s mighty friendly all of a sudden,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Fosdick; “it’s very evident what it all
means. He wants to find out whether you have discovered your loss or
not.”
</p>

<p>
“But he didn’t find out.”
</p>

<p>
“No; we’ve put him on the wrong track. He means to get his money
to-day, no doubt.”
</p>

<p>
“My money,” suggested Dick.
</p>

<p>
“I accept the correction,” said Fosdick.
</p>

<p>
“Of course, Dick, you’ll be on hand as soon as the bank
opens.”
</p>

<p>
“In course I shall. Jim Travis’ll find he’s walked into the
wrong shop.”
</p>

<p>
“The bank opens at ten o’clock, you know.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll be there on time.”
</p>

<p>
The two boys separated.
</p>

<p>
“Good luck, Dick,” said Fosdick, as he parted from him.
“It’ll all come out right, I think.”
</p>

<p>
“I hope ’twill,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
He had recovered from his temporary depression, and made up his mind that the
money would be recovered. He had no idea of allowing himself to be outwitted by
Jim Travis, and enjoyed already, in anticipation, the pleasure of defeating his
rascality.
</p>

<p>
It wanted two hours and a half yet to ten o’clock, and this time to Dick
was too precious to be wasted. It was the time of his greatest harvest. He
accordingly repaired to his usual place of business, succeeded in obtaining six
customers, which yielded him sixty cents. He then went to a restaurant, and got
some breakfast. It was now half-past nine, and Dick, feeling that it
wouldn’t do to be late, left his box in charge of Johnny Nolan, and made
his way to the bank.
</p>

<p>
The officers had not yet arrived, and Dick lingered on the outside, waiting
till they should come. He was not without a little uneasiness, fearing that
Travis might be as prompt as himself, and finding him there, might suspect
something, and so escape the snare. But, though looking cautiously up and down
the street, he could discover no traces of the supposed thief. In due time ten
o’clock struck, and immediately afterwards the doors of the bank were
thrown open, and our hero entered.
</p>

<p>
As Dick had been in the habit of making a weekly visit for the last nine
months, the cashier had come to know him by sight.
</p>

<p>
“You’re early, this morning, my lad,” he said, pleasantly.
“Have you got some more money to deposit? You’ll be getting rich,
soon.”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know about that,” said Dick. “My
bank-book’s been stole.”
</p>

<p>
“Stolen!” echoed the cashier. “That’s unfortunate. Not
so bad as it might be, though. The thief can’t collect the money.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s what I came to see about,” said Dick. “I was
afraid he might have got it already.”
</p>

<p>
“He hasn’t been here yet. Even if he had, I remember you, and
should have detected him. When was it taken?”
</p>

<p>
“Yesterday,” said Dick. “I missed it in the evenin’
when I got home.”
</p>

<p>
“Have you any suspicion as to the person who took it?” asked the
cashier.
</p>

<p>
Dick thereupon told all he knew as to the general character and suspicious
conduct of Jim Travis, and the cashier agreed with him that he was probably the
thief. Dick also gave his reason for thinking that he would visit the bank that
morning, to withdraw the funds.
</p>

<p>
“Very good,” said the cashier. “We’ll be ready for him.
What is the number of your book?”
</p>

<p>
“No. 5,678,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Now give me a little description of this Travis whom you suspect.”
</p>

<p>
Dick accordingly furnished a brief outline sketch of Travis, not particularly
complimentary to the latter.
</p>

<p>
“That will answer. I think I shall know him,” said the cashier.
“You may depend upon it that he shall receive no money on your
account.”
</p>

<p>
“Thank you,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
Considerably relieved in mind, our hero turned towards the door, thinking that
there would be nothing gained by his remaining longer, while he would of course
lose time.
</p>

<p>
He had just reached the doors, which were of glass, when through them he
perceived James Travis himself just crossing the street, and apparently coming
towards the bank. It would not do, of course, for him to be seen.
</p>

<p>
“Here he is,” he exclaimed, hurrying back. “Can’t you
hide me somewhere? I don’t want to be seen.”
</p>

<p>
The cashier understood at once how the land lay. He quickly opened a little
door, and admitted Dick behind the counter.
</p>

<p>
“Stoop down,” he said, “so as not to be seen.”
</p>

<p>
Dick had hardly done so when Jim Travis opened the outer door, and, looking
about him in a little uncertainty, walked up to the cashier’s desk.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap23" id="chap23"></a>CHAPTER XXIII.<br />
TRAVIS IS ARRESTED</h2>

<p>
Jim Travis advanced into the bank with a doubtful step, knowing well that he
was on a dishonest errand, and heartily wishing that he were well out of it.
After a little hesitation, he approached the paying-teller, and, exhibiting the
bank-book, said, “I want to get my money out.”
</p>

<p>
The bank-officer took the book, and, after looking at it a moment, said,
“How much do you want?”
</p>

<p>
“The whole of it,” said Travis.
</p>

<p>
“You can draw out any part of it, but to draw out the whole requires a
week’s notice.”
</p>

<p>
“Then I’ll take a hundred dollars.”
</p>

<p>
“Are you the person to whom the book belongs?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir,” said Travis, without hesitation.
</p>

<p>
“Your name is—”
</p>

<p>
“Hunter.”
</p>

<p>
The bank-clerk went to a large folio volume, containing the names of
depositors, and began to turn over the leaves. While he was doing this, he
managed to send out a young man connected with the bank for a policeman. Travis
did not perceive this, or did not suspect that it had anything to do with
himself. Not being used to savings banks, he supposed the delay only what was
usual. After a search, which was only intended to gain time that a policeman
might be summoned, the cashier came back, and, sliding out a piece of paper to
Travis, said, “It will be necessary for you to write an order for the
money.”
</p>

<p>
Travis took a pen, which he found on the ledge outside, and wrote the order,
signing his name “Dick Hunter,” having observed that name on the
outside of the book.
</p>

<p>
“Your name is Dick Hunter, then?” said the cashier, taking the
paper, and looking at the thief over his spectacles.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Travis, promptly.
</p>

<p>
“But,” continued the cashier, “I find Hunter’s age is
put down on the bank-book as fourteen. Surely you must be more than
that.”
</p>

<p>
Travis would gladly have declared that he was only fourteen; but, being in
reality twenty-three, and possessing a luxuriant pair of whiskers, this was not
to be thought of. He began to feel uneasy.
</p>

<p>
“Dick Hunter’s my younger brother,” he said. “I’m
getting out the money for him.”
</p>

<p>
“I thought you said your own name was Dick Hunter,” said the
cashier.
</p>

<p>
“I said my name was Hunter,” said Travis, ingeniously. “I
didn’t understand you.”
</p>

<p>
“But you’ve signed the name of Dick Hunter to this order. How is
that?” questioned the troublesome cashier.
</p>

<p>
Travis saw that he was getting himself into a tight place; but his
self-possession did not desert him.
</p>

<p>
“I thought I must give my brother’s name,” he answered.
</p>

<p>
“What is your own name?”
</p>

<p>
“Henry Hunter.”
</p>

<p>
“Can you bring any one to testify that the statement you are making is
correct?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, a dozen if you like,” said Travis, boldly. “Give me the
book, and I’ll come back this afternoon. I didn’t think
there’d be such a fuss about getting out a little money.”
</p>

<p>
“Wait a moment. Why don’t your brother come himself?”
</p>

<p>
“Because he’s sick. He’s down with the measles,” said
Travis.
</p>

<p>
Here the cashier signed to Dick to rise and show himself. Our hero accordingly
did so.
</p>

<p>
“You will be glad to find that he has recovered,” said the cashier,
pointing to Dick.
</p>

<p>
With an exclamation of anger and dismay, Travis, who saw the game was up,
started for the door, feeling that safety made such a course prudent. But he
was too late. He found himself confronted by a burly policeman, who seized him
by the arm, saying, “Not so fast, my man. I want you.”
</p>

<p>
“Let me go,” exclaimed Travis, struggling to free himself.
</p>

<p>
“I’m sorry I can’t oblige you,” said the officer.
“You’d better not make a fuss, or I may have to hurt you a
little.”
</p>

<p>
Travis sullenly resigned himself to his fate, darting a look of rage at Dick,
whom he considered the author of his present misfortune.
</p>

<p>
“This is your book,” said the cashier, handing back his rightful
property to our hero. “Do you wish to draw out any money?”
</p>

<p>
“Two dollars,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Very well. Write an order for the amount.”
</p>

<p>
Before doing so, Dick, who now that he saw Travis in the power of the law began
to pity him, went up to the officer, and said,—
</p>

<p>
“Won’t you let him go? I’ve got my bank-book back, and I
don’t want anything done to him.”
</p>

<p>
“Sorry I can’t oblige you,” said the officer; “but
I’m not allowed to do it. He’ll have to stand his trial.”
</p>

<p>
“I’m sorry for you, Travis,” said Dick. “I didn’t
want you arrested. I only wanted my bank-book back.”
</p>

<p>
“Curse you!” said Travis, scowling vindictively. “Wait till I
get free. See if I don’t fix you.”
</p>

<p>
“You needn’t pity him too much,” said the officer. “I
know him now. He’s been to the Island before.”
</p>

<p>
“It’s a lie,” said Travis, violently.
</p>

<p>
“Don’t be too noisy, my friend,” said the officer. “If
you’ve got no more business here, we’ll be going.”
</p>

<p>
He withdrew with the prisoner in charge, and Dick, having drawn his two
dollars, left the bank. Notwithstanding the violent words the prisoner had used
towards himself, and his attempted robbery, he could not help feeling sorry
that he had been instrumental in causing his arrest.
</p>

<p>
“I’ll keep my book a little safer hereafter,” thought Dick.
“Now I must go and see Tom Wilkins.”
</p>

<p>
Before dismissing the subject of Travis and his theft, it may be remarked that
he was duly tried, and, his guilt being clear, was sent to Blackwell’s
Island for nine months. At the end of that time, on his release, he got a
chance to work his passage on a ship to San Francisco, where he probably
arrived in due time. At any rate, nothing more has been heard of him, and
probably his threat of vengence against Dick will never be carried into effect.
</p>

<p>
Returning to the City Hall Park, Dick soon fell in with Tom Wilkins.
</p>

<p>
“How are you, Tom?” he said. “How’s your mother?”
</p>

<p>
“She’s better, Dick, thank you. She felt worried about bein’
turned out into the street; but I gave her that money from you, and now she
feels a good deal easier.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ve got some more for you, Tom,” said Dick, producing a
two-dollar bill from his pocket.
</p>

<p>
“I ought not to take it from you, Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“Oh, it’s all right, Tom. Don’t be afraid.”
</p>

<p>
“But you may need it yourself.”
</p>

<p>
“There’s plenty more where that came from.”
</p>

<p>
“Any way, one dollar will be enough. With that we can pay the
rent.”
</p>

<p>
“You’ll want the other to buy something to eat.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re very kind, Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“I’d ought to be. I’ve only got myself to take care
of.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, I’ll take it for my mother’s sake. When you want
anything done just call on Tom Wilkins.”
</p>

<p>
“All right. Next week, if your mother doesn’t get better,
I’ll give you some more.”
</p>

<p>
Tom thanked our hero very gratefully, and Dick walked away, feeling the
self-approval which always accompanies a generous and disinterested action. He
was generous by nature, and, before the period at which he is introduced to the
reader’s notice, he frequently treated his friends to cigars and
oyster-stews. Sometimes he invited them to accompany him to the theatre at his
expense. But he never derived from these acts of liberality the same degree of
satisfaction as from this timely gift to Tom Wilkins. He felt that his money
was well bestowed, and would save an entire family from privation and
discomfort. Five dollars would, to be sure, make something of a difference in
the amount of his savings. It was more than he was able to save up in a week.
But Dick felt fully repaid for what he had done, and he felt prepared to give
as much more, if Tom’s mother should continue to be sick, and should
appear to him to need it.
</p>

<p>
Besides all this, Dick felt a justifiable pride in his financial ability to
afford so handsome a gift. A year before, however much he might have desired to
give, it would have been quite out of his power to give five dollars. His cash
balance never reached that amount. It was seldom, indeed, that it equalled one
dollar. In more ways than one Dick was beginning to reap the advantage of his
self-denial and judicious economy.
</p>

<p>
It will be remembered that when Mr. Whitney at parting with Dick presented him
with five dollars, he told him that he might repay it to some other boy who was
struggling upward. Dick thought of this, and it occurred to him that after all
he was only paying up an old debt.
</p>

<p>
When Fosdick came home in the evening, Dick announced his success in recovering
his lost money, and described the manner it had been brought about.
</p>

<p>
“You’re in luck,” said Fosdick. “I guess we’d
better not trust the bureau-drawer again.”
</p>

<p>
“I mean to carry my book round with me,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“So shall I, as long as we stay at Mrs. Mooney’s. I wish we were in
a better place.”
</p>

<p>
“I must go down and tell her she needn’t expect Travis back. Poor
chap, I pity him!”
</p>

<p>
Travis was never more seen in Mrs. Mooney’s establishment. He was owing
that lady for a fortnight’s rent of his room, which prevented her feeling
much compassion for him. The room was soon after let to a more creditable
tenant who proved a less troublesome neighbor than his predecessor.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap24" id="chap24"></a>CHAPTER XXIV.<br />
DICK RECEIVES A LETTER</h2>

<p>
It was about a week after Dick’s recovery of his bank-book, that Fosdick
brought home with him in the evening a copy of the “Daily Sun.”
</p>

<p>
“Would you like to see your name in print, Dick?” he asked.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, who was busy at the wash-stand, endeavoring to
efface the marks which his day’s work had left upon his hands.
“They haven’t put me up for mayor, have they? ’Cause if they
have, I shan’t accept. It would interfere too much with my private
business.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Fosdick, “they haven’t put you up for office
yet, though that may happen sometime. But if you want to see your name in
print, here it is.”
</p>

<p>
Dick was rather incredulous, but, having dried his hands on the towel, took the
paper, and following the directions of Fosdick’s finger, observed in the
list of advertised letters the name of “RAGGED DICK.”
</p>

<p>
“By gracious, so it is,” said he. “Do you s’pose it
means me?”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know of any other Ragged Dick,—do you?”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick, reflectively; “it must be me. But I
don’t know of anybody that would be likely to write to me.”
</p>

<p>
“Perhaps it is Frank Whitney,” suggested Fosdick, after a little
reflection. “Didn’t he promise to write to you?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, “and he wanted me to write to him.”
</p>

<p>
“Where is he now?”
</p>

<p>
“He was going to a boarding-school in Connecticut, he said. The name of
the town was Barnton.”
</p>

<p>
“Very likely the letter is from him.”
</p>

<p>
“I hope it is. Frank was a tip-top boy, and he was the first that made me
ashamed of bein’ so ignorant and dirty.”
</p>

<p>
“You had better go to the post-office to-morrow morning, and ask for the
letter.”
</p>

<p>
“P’r’aps they won’t give it to me.”
</p>

<p>
“Suppose you wear the old clothes you used to a year ago, when Frank
first saw you? They won’t have any doubt of your being Ragged Dick
then.”
</p>

<p>
“I guess I will. I’ll be sort of ashamed to be seen in ’em
though,” said Dick, who had considerable more pride in a neat personal
appearance than when we were first introduced to him.
</p>

<p>
“It will be only for one day, or one morning,” said Fosdick.
</p>

<p>
“I’d do more’n that for the sake of gettin’ a letter
from Frank. I’d like to see him.”
</p>

<p>
The next morning, in accordance with the suggestion of Fosdick, Dick arrayed
himself in the long disused Washington coat and Napoleon pants, which he had
carefully preserved, for what reason he could hardly explain.
</p>

<p>
When fairly equipped, Dick surveyed himself in the mirror,—if the little
seven-by-nine-inch looking-glass, with which the room was furnished, deserved
the name. The result of the survey was not on the whole a pleasing one. To tell
the truth, Dick was quite ashamed of his appearance, and, on opening the
chamber-door, looked around to see that the coast was clear, not being willing
to have any of his fellow-boarders see him in his present attire.
</p>

<p>
He managed to slip out into the street unobserved, and, after attending to two
or three regular customers who came down-town early in the morning, he made his
way down Nassau Street to the post-office. He passed along until he came to a
compartment on which he read ADVERTISED LETTERS, and, stepping up to the little
window, said,—
</p>

<p>
“There’s a letter for me. I saw it advertised in the
‘Sun’ yesterday.”
</p>

<p>
“What name?” demanded the clerk.
</p>

<p>
“Ragged Dick,” answered our hero.
</p>

<p>
“That’s a queer name,” said the clerk, surveying him a little
curiously. “Are you Ragged Dick?”
</p>

<p>
“If you don’t believe me, look at my clo’es,” said
Dick.
</p>

<p>
“That’s pretty good proof, certainly,” said the clerk,
laughing. “If that isn’t your name, it deserves to be.”
</p>

<p>
“I believe in dressin’ up to your name,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Do you know any one in Barnton, Connecticut?” asked the clerk, who
had by this time found the letter.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick. “I know a chap that’s at
boardin’-school there.”
</p>

<p>
“It appears to be in a boy’s hand. I think it must be yours.”
</p>

<p>
The letter was handed to Dick through the window. He received it eagerly, and
drawing back so as not to be in the way of the throng who were constantly
applying for letters, or slipping them into the boxes provided for them,
hastily opened it, and began to read. As the reader may be interested in the
contents of the letter as well as Dick, we transcribe it below.
</p>

<p>
It was dated Barnton, Conn., and commenced thus,—
</p>

<p class="p2">
“D<small>EAR</small> D<small>ICK</small>,—You must excuse my
addressing this letter to ‘Ragged Dick’; but the fact is, I
don’t know what your last name is, nor where you live. I am afraid there
is not much chance of your getting this letter; but I hope you will. I have
thought of you very often, and wondered how you were getting along, and I
should have written to you before if I had known where to direct.
</p>

<p>
“Let me tell you a little about myself. Barnton is a very pretty country
town, only about six miles from Hartford. The boarding-school which I attend is
under the charge of Ezekiel Munroe, A.M. He is a man of about fifty, a graduate
of Yale College, and has always been a teacher. It is a large two-story house,
with an addition containing a good many small bed-chambers for the boys. There
are about twenty of us, and there is one assistant teacher who teaches the
English branches. Mr. Munroe, or Old Zeke, as we call him behind his back,
teaches Latin and Greek. I am studying both these languages, because father
wants me to go to college.
</p>

<p>
“But you won’t be interested in hearing about our studies. I will
tell you how we amuse ourselves. There are about fifty acres of land belonging
to Mr. Munroe; so that we have plenty of room for play. About a quarter of a
mile from the house there is a good-sized pond. There is a large,
round-bottomed boat, which is stout and strong. Every Wednesday and Saturday
afternoon, when the weather is good, we go out rowing on the pond. Mr. Barton,
the assistant teacher, goes with us, to look after us. In the summer we are
allowed to go in bathing. In the winter there is splendid skating on the pond.
</p>

<p>
“Besides this, we play ball a good deal, and we have various other plays.
So we have a pretty good time, although we study pretty hard too. I am getting
on very well in my studies. Father has not decided yet where he will send me to
college.
</p>

<p>
“I wish you were here, Dick. I should enjoy your company, and besides I
should like to feel that you were getting an education. I think you are
naturally a pretty smart boy; but I suppose, as you have to earn your own
living, you don’t get much chance to learn. I only wish I had a few
hundred dollars of my own. I would have you come up here, and attend school
with us. If I ever have a chance to help you in any way, you may be sure that I
will.
</p>

<p>
“I shall have to wind up my letter now, as I have to hand in a
composition to-morrow, on the life and character of Washington. I might say
that I have a friend who wears a coat that once belonged to the general. But I
suppose that coat must be worn out by this time. I don’t much like
writing compositions. I would a good deal rather write letters.
</p>

<p>
“I have written a longer letter than I meant to. I hope you will get it,
though I am afraid not. If you do, you must be sure to answer it, as soon as
possible. You needn’t mind if your writing does look like
‘hens-tracks,’ as you told me once.
</p>

<p>
“Good-by, Dick. You must always think of me, as your very true friend,
</p>

<p class="right">
“F<small>RANK</small> W<small>HITNEY</small>.”
</p>

<p>
Dick read this letter with much satisfaction. It is always pleasant to be
remembered, and Dick had so few friends that it was more to him than to boys
who are better provided. Again, he felt a new sense of importance in having a
letter addressed to him. It was the first letter he had ever received. If it
had been sent to him a year before, he would not have been able to read it. But
now, thanks to Fosdick’s instructions, he could not only read writing,
but he could write a very good hand himself.
</p>

<p>
There was one passage in the letter which pleased Dick. It was where Frank said
that if he had the money he would pay for his education himself.
</p>

<p>
“He’s a tip-top feller,” said Dick. “I wish I could see
him ag’in.”
</p>

<p>
There were two reasons why Dick would like to have seen Frank. One was, the
natural pleasure he would have in meeting a friend; but he felt also that he
would like to have Frank witness the improvement he had made in his studies and
mode of life.
</p>

<p>
“He’d find me a little more ’spectable than when he first saw
me,” thought Dick.
</p>

<p>
Dick had by this time got up to Printing House Square. Standing on Spruce
Street, near the “Tribune” office, was his old enemy, Micky
Maguire.
</p>

<p>
It has already been said that Micky felt a natural enmity towards those in his
own condition in life who wore better clothes than himself. For the last nine
months, Dick’s neat appearance had excited the ire of the young
Philistine. To appear in neat attire and with a clean face Micky felt was a
piece of presumption, and an assumption of superiority on the part of our hero,
and he termed it “tryin’ to be a swell.”
</p>

<p>
Now his astonished eyes rested on Dick in his ancient attire, which was very
similar to his own. It was a moment of triumph to him. He felt that
“pride had had a fall,” and he could not forbear reminding Dick of
it.
</p>

<p>
“Them’s nice clo’es you’ve got on,” said he,
sarcastically, as Dick came up.
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick, promptly. “I’ve been employin’
your tailor. If my face was only dirty we’d be taken for twin
brothers.”
</p>

<p>
“So you’ve give up tryin’ to be a swell?”
</p>

<p>
“Only for this partic’lar occasion,” said Dick. “I
wanted to make a fashionable call, so I put on my regimentals.”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t b’lieve you’ve got any better
clo’es,” said Micky.
</p>

<p>
“All right,” said Dick, “I won’t charge you
nothin’ for what you believe.”
</p>

<p>
Here a customer presented himself for Micky, and Dick went back to his room to
change his clothes, before resuming business.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap25" id="chap25"></a>CHAPTER XXV.<br />
DICK WRITES HIS FIRST LETTER</h2>

<p>
When Fosdick reached home in the evening, Dick displayed his letter with some
pride.
</p>

<p>
“It’s a nice letter,” said Fosdick, after reading it.
“I should like to know Frank.”
</p>

<p>
“I’ll bet you would,” said Dick. “He’s a
trump.”
</p>

<p>
“When are you going to answer it?”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know,” said Dick, dubiously. “I never writ a
letter.”
</p>

<p>
“That’s no reason why you shouldn’t. There’s always a
first time, you know.”
</p>

<p>
“I don’t know what to say,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Get some paper and sit down to it, and you’ll find enough to say.
You can do that this evening instead of studying.”
</p>

<p>
“If you’ll look it over afterwards, and shine it up a
little.”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, if it needs it; but I rather think Frank would like it best just as
you wrote it.”
</p>

<p>
Dick decided to adopt Fosdick’s suggestion. He had very serious doubts as
to his ability to write a letter. Like a good many other boys, he looked upon
it as a very serious job, not reflecting that, after all, letter-writing is
nothing but talking upon paper. Still, in spite of his misgivings, he felt that
the letter ought to be answered, and he wished Frank to hear from him. After
various preparations, he at last got settled down to his task, and, before the
evening was over, a letter was written. As the first letter which Dick had ever
produced, and because it was characteristic of him, my readers may like to read
it.
</p>

<p>
Here it is,—
</p>

<p class="p2">
“D<small>EAR</small> F<small>RANK</small>,—I got your letter this
mornin’, and was very glad to hear you hadn’t forgotten Ragged
Dick. I aint so ragged as I was. Openwork coats and trowsers has gone out of
fashion. I put on the Washington coat and Napoleon pants to go to the
post-office, for fear they wouldn’t think I was the boy that was meant.
On my way back I received the congratulations of my intimate friend, Micky
Maguire, on my improved appearance.
</p>

<p>
“I’ve give up sleepin’ in boxes, and old wagons,
findin’ it didn’t agree with my constitution. I’ve hired a
room in Mott Street, and have got a private tooter, who rooms with me and looks
after my studies in the evenin’. Mott Street aint very fashionable; but
my manshun on Fifth Avenoo isn’t finished yet, and I’m afraid it
won’t be till I’m a gray-haired veteran. I’ve got a hundred
dollars towards it, which I’ve saved up from my earnin’s. I
haven’t forgot what you and your uncle said to me, and I’m
tryin’ to grow up ’spectable. I haven’t been to Tony
Pastor’s, or the Old Bowery, for ever so long. I’d rather save up
my money to support me in my old age. When my hair gets gray, I’m
goin’ to knock off blackin’ boots, and go into some light, genteel
employment, such as keepin’ an apple-stand, or disseminatin’
pea-nuts among the people.
</p>

<p>
“I’ve got so as to read pretty well, so my tooter says. I’ve
been studyin’ geography and grammar also. I’ve made such
astonishin’ progress that I can tell a noun from a conjunction as far
away as I can see ’em. Tell Mr. Munroe that if he wants an accomplished
teacher in his school, he can send for me, and I’ll come on by the very
next train. Or, if he wants to sell out for a hundred dollars, I’ll buy
the whole concern, and agree to teach the scholars all I know myself in less
than six months. Is teachin’ as good business, generally speakin’,
as blackin’ boots? My private tooter combines both, and is makin’ a
fortun’ with great rapidity. He’ll be as rich as Astor some time,
<i>if he only lives long enough.</i>
</p>

<p>
“I should think you’d have a bully time at your school. I should
like to go out in the boat, or play ball with you. When are you comin’ to
the city? I wish you’d write and let me know when you do, and I’ll
call and see you. I’ll leave my business in the hands of my numerous
clerks, and go round with you. There’s lots of things you didn’t
see when you was here before. They’re getting on fast at the Central
Park. It looks better than it did a year ago.
</p>

<p>
“I aint much used to writin’ letters. As this is the first one I
ever wrote, I hope you’ll excuse the mistakes. I hope you’ll write
to me again soon. I can’t write so good a letter as you; but, I’ll
do my best, as the man said when he was asked if he could swim over to Brooklyn
backwards. Good-by, Frank. Thank you for all your kindness. Direct your next
letter to No. — Mott Street.
</p>

<p class="right">
“Your true friend,<br />
“D<small>ICK</small> H<small>UNTER</small>.”
</p>

<p>
When Dick had written the last word, he leaned back in his chair, and surveyed
the letter with much satisfaction.
</p>

<p>
“I didn’t think I could have wrote such a long letter,
Fosdick,” said he.
</p>

<p>
“Written would be more grammatical, Dick,” suggested his friend.
</p>

<p>
“I guess there’s plenty of mistakes in it,” said Dick.
“Just look at it, and see.”
</p>

<p>
Fosdick took the letter, and read it over carefully.
</p>

<p>
“Yes, there are some mistakes,” he said; “but it sounds so
much like you that I think it would be better to let it go just as it is. It
will be more likely to remind Frank of what you were when he first saw
you.”
</p>

<p>
“Is it good enough to send?” asked Dick, anxiously.
</p>

<p>
“Yes; it seems to me to be quite a good letter. It is written just as you
talk. Nobody but you could have written such a letter, Dick. I think Frank will
be amused at your proposal to come up there as teacher.”
</p>

<p>
“P’r’aps it would be a good idea for us to open a seleck
school here in Mott Street,” said Dick, humorously. “We could call
it ‘Professor Fosdick and Hunter’s Mott Street Seminary.’
Boot-blackin’ taught by Professor Hunter.”
</p>

<p>
The evening was so far advanced that Dick decided to postpone copying his
letter till the next evening. By this time he had come to have a very fair
handwriting, so that when the letter was complete it really looked quite
creditable, and no one would have suspected that it was Dick’s first
attempt in this line. Our hero surveyed it with no little complacency. In fact,
he felt rather proud of it, since it reminded him of the great progress he had
made. He carried it down to the post-office, and deposited it with his own
hands in the proper box. Just on the steps of the building, as he was coming
out, he met Johnny Nolan, who had been sent on an errand to Wall Street by some
gentleman, and was just returning.
</p>

<p>
“What are you doin’ down here, Dick?” asked Johnny.
</p>

<p>
“I’ve been mailin’ a letter.”
</p>

<p>
“Who sent you?”
</p>

<p>
“Nobody.”
</p>

<p>
“I mean, who writ the letter?”
</p>

<p>
“I wrote it myself.”
</p>

<p>
“Can you write letters?” asked Johnny, in amazement.
</p>

<p>
“Why shouldn’t I?”
</p>

<p>
“I didn’t know you could write. I can’t.”
</p>

<p>
“Then you ought to learn.”
</p>

<p>
“I went to school once; but it was too hard work, so I give it up.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re lazy, Johnny,—that’s what’s the matter.
How’d you ever expect to know anything, if you don’t try?”
</p>

<p>
“I can’t learn.”
</p>

<p>
“You can, if you want to.”
</p>

<p>
Johnny Nolan was evidently of a different opinion. He was a good-natured boy,
large of his age, with nothing particularly bad about him, but utterly lacking
in that energy, ambition, and natural sharpness, for which Dick was
distinguished. He was not adapted to succeed in the life which circumstances
had forced upon him; for in the street-life of the metropolis a boy needs to be
on the alert, and have all his wits about him, or he will find himself wholly
distanced by his more enterprising competitors for popular favor. To succeed in
his profession, humble as it is, a boot-black must depend upon the same
qualities which gain success in higher walks in life. It was easy to see that
Johnny, unless very much favored by circumstances, would never rise much above
his present level. For Dick, we cannot help hoping much better things.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap26" id="chap26"></a>CHAPTER XXVI.<br />
AN EXCITING ADVENTURE</h2>

<p>
Dick now began to look about for a position in a store or counting-room. Until
he should obtain one he determined to devote half the day to blacking boots,
not being willing to break in upon his small capital. He found that he could
earn enough in half a day to pay all his necessary expenses, including the
entire rent of the room. Fosdick desired to pay his half; but Dick steadily
refused, insisting upon paying so much as compensation for his friend’s
services as instructor.
</p>

<p>
It should be added that Dick’s peculiar way of speaking and use of slang
terms had been somewhat modified by his education and his intimacy with Henry
Fosdick. Still he continued to indulge in them to some extent, especially when
he felt like joking, and it was natural to Dick to joke, as my readers have
probably found out by this time. Still his manners were considerably improved,
so that he was more likely to obtain a situation than when first introduced to
our notice.
</p>

<p>
Just now, however, business was very dull, and merchants, instead of hiring new
assistants, were disposed to part with those already in their employ. After
making several ineffectual applications, Dick began to think he should be
obliged to stick to his profession until the next season. But about this time
something occurred which considerably improved his chances of preferment.
</p>

<p>
This is the way it happened.
</p>

<p>
As Dick, with a balance of more than a hundred dollars in the savings bank,
might fairly consider himself a young man of property, he thought himself
justified in occasionally taking a half holiday from business, and going on an
excursion. On Wednesday afternoon Henry Fosdick was sent by his employer on an
errand to that part of Brooklyn near Greenwood Cemetery. Dick hastily dressed
himself in his best, and determined to accompany him.
</p>

<p>
The two boys walked down to the South Ferry, and, paying their two cents each,
entered the ferry boat. They remained at the stern, and stood by the railing,
watching the great city, with its crowded wharves, receding from view. Beside
them was a gentleman with two children,—a girl of eight and a little boy
of six. The children were talking gayly to their father. While he was pointing
out some object of interest to the little girl, the boy managed to creep,
unobserved, beneath the chain that extends across the boat, for the protection
of passengers, and, stepping incautiously to the edge of the boat, fell over
into the foaming water.
</p>

<p>
At the child’s scream, the father looked up, and, with a cry of horror,
sprang to the edge of the boat. He would have plunged in, but, being unable to
swim, would only have endangered his own life, without being able to save his
child.
</p>

<p>
“My child!” he exclaimed in anguish,—“who will save my
child? A thousand—ten thousand dollars to any one who will save
him!”
</p>

<p>
There chanced to be but few passengers on board at the time, and nearly all
these were either in the cabins or standing forward. Among the few who saw the
child fall was our hero.
</p>

<p>
Now Dick was an expert swimmer. It was an accomplishment which he had possessed
for years, and he no sooner saw the boy fall than he resolved to rescue him.
His determination was formed before he heard the liberal offer made by the
boy’s father. Indeed, I must do Dick the justice to say that, in the
excitement of the moment, he did not hear it at all, nor would it have
stimulated the alacrity with which he sprang to the rescue of the little boy.
</p>

<p>
Little Johnny had already risen once, and gone under for the second time, when
our hero plunged in. He was obliged to strike out for the boy, and this took
time. He reached him none too soon. Just as he was sinking for the third and
last time, he caught him by the jacket. Dick was stout and strong, but Johnny
clung to him so tightly, that it was with great difficulty he was able to
sustain himself.
</p>

<p>
“Put your arms round my neck,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
The little boy mechanically obeyed, and clung with a grasp strengthened by his
terror. In this position Dick could bear his weight better. But the ferry-boat
was receding fast. It was quite impossible to reach it. The father, his face
pale with terror and anguish, and his hands clasped in suspense, saw the brave
boy’s struggles, and prayed with agonizing fervor that he might be
successful. But it is probable, for they were now midway of the river, that
both Dick and the little boy whom he had bravely undertaken to rescue would
have been drowned, had not a row-boat been fortunately near. The two men who
were in it witnessed the accident, and hastened to the rescue of our hero.
</p>

<p>
“Keep up a little longer,” they shouted, bending to their oars,
“and we will save you.”
</p>

<p>
Dick heard the shout, and it put fresh strength into him. He battled manfully
with the treacherous sea, his eyes fixed longingly upon the approaching boat.
</p>

<p>
“Hold on tight, little boy,” he said. “There’s a boat
coming.”
</p>

<p>
The little boy did not see the boat. His eyes were closed to shut out the
fearful water, but he clung the closer to his young preserver. Six long, steady
strokes, and the boat dashed along side. Strong hands seized Dick and his
youthful burden, and drew them into the boat, both dripping with water.
</p>

<p>
“God be thanked!” exclaimed the father, as from the steamer he saw
the child’s rescue. “That brave boy shall be rewarded, if I
sacrifice my whole fortune to compass it.”
</p>

<p>
“You’ve had a pretty narrow escape, young chap,” said one of
the boatmen to Dick. “It was a pretty tough job you undertook.”
</p>

<p>
“Yes,” said Dick. “That’s what I thought when I was in
the water. If it hadn’t been for you, I don’t know what would have
’come of us.”
</p>

<p>
“Anyhow you’re a plucky boy, or you wouldn’t have dared to
jump into the water after this little chap. It was a risky thing to do.”
</p>

<p>
“I’m used to the water,” said Dick, modestly. “I
didn’t stop to think of the danger, but I wasn’t going to see that
little fellow drown without tryin’ to save him.”
</p>

<p>
The boat at once headed for the ferry wharf on the Brooklyn side. The captain
of the ferry-boat, seeing the rescue, did not think it necessary to stop his
boat, but kept on his way. The whole occurrence took place in less time than I
have occupied in telling it.
</p>

<p>
The father was waiting on the wharf to receive his little boy, with what
feelings of gratitude and joy can be easily understood. With a burst of happy
tears he clasped him to his arms. Dick was about to withdraw modestly, but the
gentleman perceived the movement, and, putting down the child, came forward,
and, clasping his hand, said with emotion, “My brave boy, I owe you a
debt I can never repay. But for your timely service I should now be plunged
into an anguish which I cannot think of without a shudder.”
</p>

<p>
Our hero was ready enough to speak on most occasions, but always felt awkward
when he was praised.
</p>

<p>
“It wasn’t any trouble,” he said, modestly. “I can swim
like a top.”
</p>

<p>
“But not many boys would have risked their lives for a stranger,”
said the gentleman. “But,” he added with a sudden thought, as his
glance rested on Dick’s dripping garments, “both you and my little
boy will take cold in wet clothes. Fortunately I have a friend living close at
hand, at whose house you will have an opportunity of taking off your clothes,
and having them dried.”
</p>

<p>
Dick protested that he never took cold; but Fosdick, who had now joined them,
and who, it is needless to say, had been greatly alarmed at Dick’s
danger, joined in urging compliance with the gentleman’s proposal, and in
the end our hero had to yield. His new friend secured a hack, the driver of
which agreed for extra recompense to receive the dripping boys into his
carriage, and they were whirled rapidly to a pleasant house in a side street,
where matters were quickly explained, and both boys were put to bed.
</p>

<p>
“I aint used to goin’ to bed quite so early,” thought Dick.
“This is the queerest excursion I ever took.”
</p>

<p>
Like most active boys Dick did not enjoy the prospect of spending half a day in
bed; but his confinement did not last as long as he anticipated.
</p>

<p>
In about an hour the door of his chamber was opened, and a servant appeared,
bringing a new and handsome suit of clothes throughout.
</p>

<p>
“You are to put on these,” said the servant to Dick; “but you
needn’t get up till you feel like it.”
</p>

<p>
“Whose clothes are they?” asked Dick.
</p>

<p>
“They are yours.”
</p>

<p>
“Mine! Where did they come from?”
</p>

<p>
“Mr. Rockwell sent out and bought them for you. They are the same size as
your wet ones.”
</p>

<p>
“Is he here now?”
</p>

<p>
“No. He bought another suit for the little boy, and has gone back to New
York. Here’s a note he asked me to give you.”
</p>

<p>
Dick opened the paper, and read as follows,—
</p>

<p class="p2">
“Please accept this outfit of clothes as the first instalment of a debt
which I can never repay. I have asked to have your wet suit dried, when you can
reclaim it. Will you oblige me by calling to-morrow at my counting room, No.
—, Pearl Street.
</p>

<p class="right">
“Your friend,<br />
“J<small>AMES</small> R<small>OCKWELL</small>.”
</p>


</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap27" id="chap27"></a>CHAPTER XXVII.<br />
CONCLUSION</h2>

<p>
When Dick was dressed in his new suit, he surveyed his figure with pardonable
complacency. It was the best he had ever worn, and fitted him as well as if it
had been made expressly for him.
</p>

<p>
“He’s done the handsome thing,” said Dick to himself;
“but there wasn’t no ’casion for his givin’ me these
clothes. My lucky stars are shinin’ pretty bright now. Jumpin’ into
the water pays better than shinin’ boots; but I don’t think
I’d like to try it more’n once a week.”
</p>

<p>
About eleven o’clock the next morning Dick repaired to Mr.
Rockwell’s counting-room on Pearl Street. He found himself in front of a
large and handsome warehouse. The counting-room was on the lower floor. Our
hero entered, and found Mr. Rockwell sitting at a desk. No sooner did that
gentleman see him than he arose, and, advancing, shook Dick by the hand in the
most friendly manner.
</p>

<p>
“My young friend,” he said, “you have done me so great
service that I wish to be of some service to you in return. Tell me about
yourself, and what plans or wishes you have formed for the future.”
</p>

<p>
Dick frankly related his past history, and told Mr. Rockwell of his desire to
get into a store or counting-room, and of the failure of all his applications
thus far. The merchant listened attentively to Dick’s statement, and,
when he had finished, placed a sheet of paper before him, and, handing him a
pen, said, “Will you write your name on this piece of paper?”
</p>

<p>
Dick wrote in a free, bold hand, the name Richard Hunter. He had very much
improved in his penmanship, as has already been mentioned, and now had no cause
to be ashamed of it.
</p>

<p>
Mr. Rockwell surveyed it approvingly.
</p>

<p>
“How would you like to enter my counting-room as clerk, Richard?”
he asked.
</p>

<p>
Dick was about to say “Bully,” when he recollected himself, and
answered, “Very much.”
</p>

<p>
“I suppose you know something of arithmetic, do you not?”
</p>

<p>
“Yes, sir.”
</p>

<p>
“Then you may consider yourself engaged at a salary of ten dollars a
week. You may come next Monday morning.”
</p>

<p>
“Ten dollars!” repeated Dick, thinking he must have misunderstood.
</p>

<p>
“Yes; will that be sufficient?”
</p>

<p>
“It’s more than I can earn,” said Dick, honestly.
</p>

<p>
“Perhaps it is at first,” said Mr. Rockwell, smiling; “but I
am willing to pay you that. I will besides advance you as fast as your progress
will justify it.”
</p>

<p>
Dick was so elated that he hardly restrained himself from some demonstration
which would have astonished the merchant; but he exercised self-control, and
only said, “I’ll try to serve you so faithfully, sir, that you
won’t repent having taken me into your service.”
</p>

<p>
“And I think you will succeed,” said Mr. Rockwell, encouragingly.
“I will not detain you any longer, for I have some important business to
attend to. I shall expect to see you on Monday morning.”
</p>

<p>
Dick left the counting-room, hardly knowing whether he stood on his head or his
heels, so overjoyed was he at the sudden change in his fortunes. Ten dollars a
week was to him a fortune, and three times as much as he had expected to obtain
at first. Indeed he would have been glad, only the day before, to get a place
at three dollars a week. He reflected that with the stock of clothes which he
had now on hand, he could save up at least half of it, and even then live
better than he had been accustomed to do; so that his little fund in the
savings bank, instead of being diminished, would be steadily increasing. Then
he was to be advanced if he deserved it. It was indeed a bright prospect for a
boy who, only a year before, could neither read nor write, and depended for a
night’s lodging upon the chance hospitality of an alley-way or old wagon.
Dick’s great ambition to “grow up ’spectable” seemed
likely to be accomplished after all.
</p>

<p>
“I wish Fosdick was as well off as I am,” he thought generously.
But he determined to help his less fortunate friend, and assist him up the
ladder as he advanced himself.
</p>

<p>
When Dick entered his room on Mott Street, he discovered that some one else had
been there before him, and two articles of wearing apparel had disappeared.
</p>

<p>
“By gracious!” he exclaimed; “somebody’s stole my
Washington coat and Napoleon pants. Maybe it’s an agent of
Barnum’s, who expects to make a fortun’ by exhibitin’ the
valooable wardrobe of a gentleman of fashion.”
</p>

<p>
Dick did not shed many tears over his loss, as, in his present circumstances,
he never expected to have any further use for the well-worn garments. It may be
stated that he afterwards saw them adorning the figure of Micky Maguire; but
whether that estimable young man stole them himself, he never ascertained. As
to the loss, Dick was rather pleased that it had occurred. It seemed to cut him
off from the old vagabond life which he hoped never to resume. Henceforward he
meant to press onward, and rise as high as possible.
</p>

<p>
Although it was yet only noon, Dick did not go out again with his brush. He
felt that it was time to retire from business. He would leave his share of the
public patronage to other boys less fortunate than himself. That evening Dick
and Fosdick had a long conversation. Fosdick rejoiced heartily in his
friend’s success, and on his side had the pleasant news to communicate
that his pay had been advanced to six dollars a week.
</p>

<p>
“I think we can afford to leave Mott Street now,” he continued.
“This house isn’t as neat as it might be, and I shall like to live
in a nicer quarter of the city.”
</p>

<p>
“All right,” said Dick. “We’ll hunt up a new room
to-morrow. I shall have plenty of time, having retired from business.
I’ll try to get my reg’lar customers to take Johnny Nolan in my
place. That boy hasn’t any enterprise. He needs some body to look out for
him.”
</p>

<p>
“You might give him your box and brush, too, Dick.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “I’ll give him some new ones, but mine
I want to keep, to remind me of the hard times I’ve had, when I was an
ignorant boot-black, and never expected to be anything better.”
</p>

<p>
“When, in short, you were ‘Ragged Dick.’ You must drop that
name, and think of yourself now as”—
</p>

<p>
“Richard Hunter, Esq.,” said our hero, smiling.
</p>

<p>
“A young gentleman on the way to fame and fortune,” added Fosdick.
</p>

<hr />

<p>
Here ends the story of Ragged Dick. As Fosdick said, he is Ragged Dick no
longer. He has taken a step upward, and is determined to mount still higher.
There are fresh adventures in store for him, and for others who have been
introduced in these pages. Those who have felt interested in his early life
will find his history continued in a new volume, forming the second of the
series, to be called,—
</p>

<p class="center">F<small>AME AND</small> F<small>ORTUNE</small>;<br />
<small>OR</small>,<br />
T<small>HE</small> P<small>ROGRESS OF</small> R<small>ICHARD</small>
H<small>UNTER</small>.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

</body>

</html>