<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			
<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="chap14" id="chap14"></a>CHAPTER XIV.<br />
A BATTLE AND A VICTORY</h2>

<p>
“What’s that for?” demanded Dick, turning round to see who
had struck him.
</p>

<p>
“You’re gettin’ mighty fine!” said Micky Maguire,
surveying Dick’s new clothes with a scornful air.
</p>

<p>
There was something in his words and tone, which Dick, who was disposed to
stand up for his dignity, did not at all relish.
</p>

<p>
“Well, what’s the odds if I am?” he retorted. “Does it
hurt you any?”
</p>

<p>
“See him put on airs, Jim,” said Micky, turning to his companion.
“Where’d you get them clo’es?”
</p>

<p>
“Never mind where I got ’em. Maybe the Prince of Wales gave
’em to me.”
</p>

<p>
“Hear him, now, Jim,” said Micky. “Most likely he stole
’em.”
</p>

<p>
“Stealin’ aint in <i>my</i> line.”
</p>

<p>
It might have been unconscious the emphasis which Dick placed on the word
“my.” At any rate Micky chose to take offence.
</p>

<p>
“Do you mean to say <i>I</i> steal?” he demanded, doubling up his
fist, and advancing towards Dick in a threatening manner.
</p>

<p>
“I don’t say anything about it,” answered Dick, by no means
alarmed at this hostile demonstration. “I know you’ve been to the
Island twice. P’r’aps ’twas to make a visit along of the
Mayor and Aldermen. Maybe you was a innocent victim of oppression. I aint a
goin’ to say.”
</p>

<p>
Micky’s freckled face grew red with wrath, for Dick had only stated the
truth.
</p>

<p>
“Do you mean to insult me?” he demanded shaking the fist already
doubled up in Dick’s face. “Maybe you want a lickin’?”
</p>

<p>
“I aint partic’larly anxious to get one,” said Dick, coolly.
“They don’t agree with my constitution which is nat’rally
delicate. I’d rather have a good dinner than a lickin’ any
time.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re afraid,” sneered Micky. “Isn’t he,
Jim?”
</p>

<p>
“In course he is.”
</p>

<p>
“P’r’aps I am,” said Dick, composedly, “but it
don’t trouble me much.”
</p>

<p>
“Do you want to fight?” demanded Micky, encouraged by Dick’s
quietness, fancying he was afraid to encounter him.
</p>

<p>
“No, I don’t,” said Dick. “I aint fond of
fightin’. It’s a very poor amusement, and very bad for the
complexion, ’specially for the eyes and nose, which is apt to turn red,
white, and blue.”
</p>

<p>
Micky misunderstood Dick, and judged from the tenor of his speech that he would
be an easy victim. As he knew, Dick very seldom was concerned in any street
fight,—not from cowardice, as he imagined, but because he had too much
good sense to do so. Being quarrelsome, like all bullies, and supposing that he
was more than a match for our hero, being about two inches taller, he could no
longer resist an inclination to assault him, and tried to plant a blow in
Dick’s face which would have hurt him considerably if he had not drawn
back just in time.
</p>

<p>
Now, though Dick was far from quarrelsome, he was ready to defend himself on
all occasions, and it was too much to expect that he would stand quiet and
allow himself to be beaten.
</p>

<p>
He dropped his blacking-box on the instant, and returned Micky’s blow
with such good effect that the young bully staggered back, and would have
fallen, if he had not been propped up by his confederate, Limpy Jim.
</p>

<p>
“Go in, Micky!” shouted the latter, who was rather a coward on his
own account, but liked to see others fight. “Polish him off, that’s
a good feller.”
</p>

<p>
Micky was now boiling over with rage and fury, and required no urging. He was
fully determined to make a terrible example of poor Dick. He threw himself upon
him, and strove to bear him to the ground; but Dick, avoiding a close hug, in
which he might possibly have got the worst of it, by an adroit movement,
tripped up his antagonist, and stretched him on the side walk.
</p>

<p>
“Hit him, Jim!” exclaimed Micky, furiously.
</p>

<p>
Limpy Jim did not seem inclined to obey orders. There was a quiet strength and
coolness about Dick, which alarmed him. He preferred that Micky should incur
all the risks of battle, and accordingly set himself to raising his fallen
comrade.
</p>

<p>
“Come, Micky,” said Dick, quietly, “you’d better give
it up. I wouldn’t have touched you if you hadn’t hit me first. I
don’t want to fight. It’s low business.”
</p>

<p>
“You’re afraid of hurtin’ your clo’es,” said
Micky, with a sneer.
</p>

<p>
“Maybe I am,” said Dick. “I hope I haven’t hurt
yours.”
</p>

<p>
Micky’s answer to this was another attack, as violent and impetuous as
the first. But his fury was in the way. He struck wildly, not measuring his
blows, and Dick had no difficulty in turning aside, so that his
antagonist’s blow fell upon the empty air, and his momentum was such that
he nearly fell forward headlong. Dick might readily have taken advantage of his
unsteadiness, and knocked him down; but he was not vindictive, and chose to act
on the defensive, except when he could not avoid it.
</p>

<p>
Recovering himself, Micky saw that Dick was a more formidable antagonist than
he had supposed, and was meditating another assault, better planned, which by
its impetuosity might bear our hero to the ground. But there was an
unlooked-for interference.
</p>

<p>
“Look out for the ‘copp,’” said Jim, in a low voice.
</p>

<p>
Micky turned round and saw a tall policeman heading towards him, and thought it
might be prudent to suspend hostilities. He accordingly picked up his
black-box, and, hitching up his pants, walked off, attended by Limpy Jim.
</p>

<p>
“What’s that chap been doing?” asked the policeman of Dick.
</p>

<p>
“He was amoosin’ himself by pitchin’ into me,” replied
Dick.
</p>

<p>
“What for?”
</p>

<p>
“He didn’t like it ’cause I patronized a different tailor
from him.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, it seems to me you <i>are</i> dressed pretty smart for a
boot-black,” said the policeman.
</p>

<p>
“I wish I wasn’t a boot-black,” said Dick.
</p>

<p>
“Never mind, my lad. It’s an honest business,” said the
policeman, who was a sensible man and a worthy citizen. “It’s an
honest business. Stick to it till you get something better.”
</p>

<p>
“I mean to,” said Dick. “It aint easy to get out of it, as
the prisoner remarked, when he was asked how he liked his residence.”
</p>

<p>
“I hope you don’t speak from experience.”
</p>

<p>
“No,” said Dick; “I don’t mean to get into prison if I
can help it.”
</p>

<p>
“Do you see that gentleman over there?” asked the officer, pointing
to a well-dressed man who was walking on the other side of the street.
</p>

<p>
“Yes.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, he was once a newsboy.”
</p>

<p>
“And what is he now?”
</p>

<p>
“He keeps a bookstore, and is quite prosperous.”
</p>

<p>
Dick looked at the gentleman with interest, wondering if he should look as
respectable when he was a grown man.
</p>

<p>
It will be seen that Dick was getting ambitious. Hitherto he had thought very
little of the future, but was content to get along as he could, dining as well
as his means would allow, and spending the evenings in the pit of the Old
Bowery, eating peanuts between the acts if he was prosperous, and if unlucky
supping on dry bread or an apple, and sleeping in an old box or a wagon. Now,
for the first time, he began to reflect that he could not black boots all his
life. In seven years he would be a man, and, since his meeting with Frank, he
felt that he would like to be a respectable man. He could see and appreciate
the difference between Frank and such a boy as Micky Maguire, and it was not
strange that he preferred the society of the former.
</p>

<p>
In the course of the next morning, in pursuance of his new resolutions for the
future, he called at a savings bank, and held out four dollars in bills besides
another dollar in change. There was a high railing, and a number of clerks
busily writing at desks behind it. Dick, never having been in a bank before,
did not know where to go. He went, by mistake, to the desk where money was paid
out.
</p>

<p>
“Where’s your book?” asked the clerk.
</p>

<p>
“I haven’t got any.”
</p>

<p>
“Have you any money deposited here?”
</p>

<p>
“No, sir, I want to leave some here.”
</p>

<p>
“Then go to the next desk.”
</p>

<p>
Dick followed directions, and presented himself before an elderly man with gray
hair, who looked at him over the rims of his spectacles.
</p>

<p>
“I want you to keep that for me,” said Dick, awkwardly emptying his
money out on the desk.
</p>

<p>
“How much is there?”
</p>

<p>
“Five dollars.”
</p>

<p>
“Have you got an account here?”
</p>

<p>
“No, sir.”
</p>

<p>
“Of course you can write?”
</p>

<p>
The “of course” was said on account of Dick’s neat dress.
</p>

<p>
“Have I got to do any writing?” asked our hero, a little
embarrassed.
</p>

<p>
“We want you to sign your name in this book,” and the old gentleman
shoved round a large folio volume containing the names of depositors.
</p>

<p>
Dick surveyed the book with some awe.
</p>

<p>
“I aint much on writin’,” he said.
</p>

<p>
“Very well; write as well as you can.”
</p>

<p>
The pen was put into Dick’s hand, and, after dipping it in the inkstand,
he succeeded after a hard effort, accompanied by many contortions of the face,
in inscribing upon the book of the bank the name
</p>

<p class="center">
D<small>ICK</small> H<small>UNTER</small>.
</p>

<p>
“Dick!—that means Richard, I suppose,” said the bank officer,
who had some difficulty in making out the signature.
</p>

<p>
“No; Ragged Dick is what folks call me.”
</p>

<p>
“You don’t look very ragged.”
</p>

<p>
“No, I’ve left my rags to home. They might get wore out if I used
’em too common.”
</p>

<p>
“Well, my lad, I’ll make out a book in the name of Dick Hunter,
since you seem to prefer Dick to Richard. I hope you will save up your money
and deposit more with us.”
</p>

<p>
Our hero took his bank-book, and gazed on the entry “Five Dollars”
with a new sense of importance. He had been accustomed to joke about Erie
shares, but now, for the first time, he felt himself a capitalist; on a small
scale, to be sure, but still it was no small thing for Dick to have five
dollars which he could call his own. He firmly determined that he would lay by
every cent he could spare from his earnings towards the fund he hoped to
accumulate.
</p>

<p>
But Dick was too sensible not to know that there was something more than money
needed to win a respectable position in the world. He felt that he was very
ignorant. Of reading and writing he only knew the rudiments, and that, with a
slight acquaintance with arithmetic, was all he did know of books. Dick knew he
must study hard, and he dreaded it. He looked upon learning as attended with
greater difficulties than it really possesses. But Dick had good pluck. He
meant to learn, nevertheless, and resolved to buy a book with his first spare
earnings.
</p>

<p>
When Dick went home at night he locked up his bank-book in one of the drawers
of the bureau. It was wonderful how much more independent he felt whenever he
reflected upon the contents of that drawer, and with what an important air of
joint ownership he regarded the bank building in which his small savings were
deposited.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
