<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXVII: Conclusion</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
			<div class="chapter">
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Conclusion</h3>
				<p>When Dick was dressed in his new suit, he surveyed his figure with pardonable complacency. It was the best he had ever worn, and fitted him as well as if it had been made expressly for him.</p>
				<p>“He’s done the handsome thing,” said Dick to himself; “but there wasn’t no ’casion for his givin’ me these clothes. My lucky stars are shinin’ pretty bright now. Jumpin’ into the water pays better than shinin’ boots; but I don’t think I’d like to try it more’n once a week.”</p>
				<p>About eleven o’clock the next morning Dick repaired to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Rockwell’s counting-room on Pearl Street. He found himself in front of a large and handsome warehouse. The counting-room was on the lower floor. Our hero entered, and found <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Rockwell sitting at a desk. No sooner did that gentleman see him than he arose, and, advancing, shook Dick by the hand in the most friendly manner.</p>
				<p>“My young friend,” he said, “you have done me so great service that I wish to be of some service to you in return. Tell me about yourself, and what plans or wishes you have formed for the future.”</p>
				<p>Dick frankly related his past history, and told <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Rockwell of his desire to get into a store or counting-room, and of the failure of all his applications thus far. The merchant listened attentively to Dick’s statement, and, when he had finished, placed a sheet of paper before him, and, handing him a pen, said, “Will you write your name on this piece of paper?”</p>
				<p>Dick wrote in a free, bold hand, the name Richard Hunter. He had very much improved in his penmanship, as has already been mentioned, and now had no cause to be ashamed of it.</p>
				<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Rockwell surveyed it approvingly.</p>
				<p>“How would you like to enter my counting-room as clerk, Richard?” he asked.</p>
				<p>Dick was about to say “Bully,” when he recollected himself, and answered, “Very much.”</p>
				<p>“I suppose you know something of arithmetic, do you not?”</p>
				<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
				<p>“Then you may consider yourself engaged at a salary of ten dollars a week. You may come next Monday morning.”</p>
				<p>“Ten dollars!” repeated Dick, thinking he must have misunderstood.</p>
				<p>“Yes; will that be sufficient?”</p>
				<p>“It’s more than I can earn,” said Dick, honestly.</p>
				<p>“Perhaps it is at first,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Rockwell, smiling; “but I am willing to pay you that. I will besides advance you as fast as your progress will justify it.”</p>
				<p>Dick was so elated that he hardly restrained himself from some demonstration which would have astonished the merchant; but he exercised self-control, and only said, “I’ll try to serve you so faithfully, sir, that you won’t repent having taken me into your service.”</p>
				<p>“And I think you will succeed,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Rockwell, encouragingly. “I will not detain you any longer, for I have some important business to attend to. I shall expect to see you on Monday morning.”</p>
				<p>Dick left the counting-room, hardly knowing whether he stood on his head or his heels, so overjoyed was he at the sudden change in his fortunes. Ten dollars a week was to him a fortune, and three times as much as he had expected to obtain at first. Indeed he would have been glad, only the day before, to get a place at three dollars a week. He reflected that with the stock of clothes which he had now on hand, he could save up at least half of it, and even then live better than he had been accustomed to do; so that his little fund in the savings bank, instead of being diminished, would be steadily increasing. Then he was to be advanced if he deserved it. It was indeed a bright prospect for a boy who, only a year before, could neither read nor write, and depended for a night’s lodging upon the chance hospitality of an alleyway or old wagon. Dick’s great ambition to “grow up ’spectable” seemed likely to be accomplished after all.</p>
				<p>“I wish Fosdick was as well off as I am,” he thought generously. But he determined to help his less fortunate friend, and assist him up the ladder as he advanced himself.</p>
				<p>When Dick entered his room on Mott Street, he discovered that someone else had been there before him, and two articles of wearing apparel had disappeared.</p>
				<p>“By gracious!” he exclaimed; “somebody’s stole my Washington coat and Napoleon pants. Maybe it’s an agent of Barnum’s, who expects to make a fortun’ by exhibitin’ the valooable wardrobe of a gentleman of fashion.”</p>
				<p>Dick did not shed many tears over his loss, as, in his present circumstances, he never expected to have any further use for the well-worn garments. It may be stated that he afterwards saw them adorning the figure of Micky Maguire; but whether that estimable young man stole them himself, he never ascertained. As to the loss, Dick was rather pleased that it had occurred. It seemed to cut him off from the old vagabond life which he hoped never to resume. Henceforward he meant to press onward, and rise as high as possible.</p>
				<p>Although it was yet only noon, Dick did not go out again with his brush. He felt that it was time to retire from business. He would leave his share of the public patronage to other boys less fortunate than himself. That evening Dick and Fosdick had a long conversation. Fosdick rejoiced heartily in his friend’s success, and on his side had the pleasant news to communicate that his pay had been advanced to six dollars a week.</p>
				<p>“I think we can afford to leave Mott Street now,” he continued. “This house isn’t as neat as it might be, and I shall like to live in a nicer quarter of the city.”</p>
				<p>“All right,” said Dick. “We’ll hunt up a new room tomorrow. I shall have plenty of time, having retired from business. I’ll try to get my reg’lar customers to take Johnny Nolan in my place. That boy hasn’t any enterprise. He needs some body to look out for him.”</p>
				<p>“You might give him your box and brush, too, Dick.”</p>
				<p>“No,” said Dick; “I’ll give him some new ones, but mine I want to keep, to remind me of the hard times I’ve had, when I was an ignorant bootblack, and never expected to be anything better.”</p>
				<p>“When, in short, you were ‘Ragged Dick.’ You must drop that name, and think of yourself now as”⁠—</p>
				<p>“Richard Hunter, <abbr>Esq.</abbr>,” said our hero, smiling.</p>
				<p>“A young gentleman on the way to fame and fortune,” added Fosdick.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>Here ends the story of Ragged Dick. As Fosdick said, he is Ragged Dick no longer. He has taken a step upward, and is determined to mount still higher. There are fresh adventures in store for him, and for others who have been introduced in these pages. Those who have felt interested in his early life will find his history continued in a new volume, forming the second of the series, to be called⁠—</p>
				<hgroup epub:type="fulltitle">
					<h2 epub:type="title">Fame and Fortune;</h2>
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle">or,</h3>
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle">The Progress of Richard Hunter.</h3>
				</hgroup>
			</div>
			<!--end chapter-->
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
